
A
A (named a in the English, and most commonly ä in other languages).

Defn: The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.
The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also
the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,
etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from
the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first
letter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a
consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an
element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent
their vowel Alpha with the ä sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no
vowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several different
vowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 43-74. The regular long
a, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken
the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was
a sound of the quality of ä (as in far).

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in
C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the
scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A
in the treble staff.
 -- A sharp (A#) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A
and B.
 -- A flat (A) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.

A per se Etym: (L. per se by itself), one preëminent; a nonesuch.
[Obs.]
O fair Creseide, the flower and A per se Of Troy and Greece. Chaucer.

A
A (# emph. #).

1. Etym: [Shortened form of an. AS. an one. See One.]

Defn: An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and
signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

Defn: "At a birth"; "In a word"; "At a blow". Shak.

Note: It is placed before nouns of the singular number denoting an
individual object, or a quality individualized, before collective
nouns, and also before plural nouns when the adjective few or the
phrase great many or good many is interposed; as, a dog, a house, a
man; a color; a sweetness; a hundred, a fleet, a regiment; a few
persons, a great many days. It is used for an, for the sake of
euphony, before words beginning with a consonant sound [for exception
of certain words beginning with h, see An]; as, a table, a woman, a
year, a unit, a eulogy, a ewe, a oneness, such a one, etc. Formally
an was used both before vowels and consonants.

2. Etym: [Originally the preposition a (an, on).]

Defn: In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred
pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

A
A, prep. Etym: [Abbreviated form of an (AS. on). See On.]

1. In; on; at; by. [Obs.] "A God's name." "Torn a pieces." "Stand a
tiptoe." "A Sundays" Shak. "Wit that men have now a days." Chaucer.
"Set them a work." Robynson (More's Utopia)

2. In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal
substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a
shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel
sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging. "Jacob, when he was a
dying" Heb. xi. 21. "We'll a birding together." " It was a doing."
Shak. "He burst out a laughing." Macaulay. The hyphen may be used to
connect a with the verbal substantive (as, a-hunting, a-building) or
the words may be written separately. This form of expression is now
for the most part obsolete, the a being omitted and the verbal
substantive treated as a participle.

A
A. Etym: [From AS. of off, from. See Of.]

Defn: Of. [Obs.] "The name of John a Gaunt." "What time a day is it "
Shak. "It's six a clock." B. Jonson.

A
A.

Defn: A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and
of they. "So would I a done" "A brushes his hat." Shak.

A
A.

Defn: An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter
A merry heart goes all the day, Your sad tires in a mile-a. Shak.

A-
A-

Defn: A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various
sources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of
AS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,
aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,
etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdüne off the dun or
hill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an
intensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in
arise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.
inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),
which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as in
aware. (5) French à (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,
abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, or
privative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.

Note: Besides these, there are other sources from which the prefix a
takes its origin.

A 1
A 1. A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships
in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A
3.

Note: A 1 is also applied colloquially to other things to imply
superiority; prime; first-class; first-rate.

AAM
Aam, n. Etym: [D. aam, fr. LL. ama; cf. L. hama a water bucket, Gr.

Defn: A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different
cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, at
Hamburg 38¼. [Written also Aum and Awm.]

AARD-VARK
Aard"-vark`, n. Etym: [D., earth-pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
long, slimy tongue.

AARD-WOLF
Aard"-wolf`, n. Etym: [D, earth-wolf] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,
resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

AARONIC; AARONICAL
Aa*ron"ic, Aa*ron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

AARON'S ROD
Aar"on's rod`. Etym: [See Exodus vii. 9 and Numbers xvii. 8]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from
the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or
hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

AB-
Ab-. Etym: [Latin prep., etymologically the same as E. of, off. See
Of.]

Defn: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-
(6).

AB
Ab, n. Etym: [Of Syriac origin.]

Defn: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.

ABACA
Ab"a*ca, n. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
Manila hemp under Manila.

ABACINATE
A*bac"i*nate, v.t. Etym: [LL. abacinatus, p.p. of abacinare; ab off +
bacinus a basin.]

Defn: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]

ABACINATION
A*bac`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of abacinating. [R.]

ABACISCUS
Ab`a*cis"cus, n. Etym: [Gr.Abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an
abaculus.

ABACIST
Ab"a*cist, n. Etym: [LL abacista, fr. abacus.]

Defn: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

ABACK
A*back", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + back; AS. on bæc at, on, or toward
the back. See Back.]

1. Toward the back or rear; backward. "Therewith aback she started."
Chaucer.

2. Behind; in the rear. Knolles.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by
the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward
against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the
sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or
discomfited. Dickens.

ABACK
Ab"ack, n.

Defn: An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ABACTINAL
Ab*ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab + E. actinal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a
radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal
area." L. Agassiz.

ABACTION
Ab*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]

ABACTOR
Ab*ac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. abigere to drive away; ab+agere to
drive.] (Law)

Defn: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or
droves. [Obs.]

ABACULUS
A*bac"u*lus, n.; pl. Abaculi. Etym: [L., dim. of abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various
colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Fairholt.

ABACUS
Ab"a*cus, n. E. pl. Abacuses ; L. pl. Abaci. Etym: [L. abacus, abax,
Gr.

1. A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing,
calculating, etc. [Obs.]

2. A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
etc. It is still employed in China.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column,
immediately under the architrave. See Column.
(b) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

4. A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for
holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or
sideboard. Abacus harmonicus (Mus.), an ancient diagram showing the
structure and disposition of the keys of an instrument. Crabb.

ABADA
Ab"a*da, n. Etym: [Pg., the female rhinoceros.]

Defn: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.

ABADDON
A*bad"don, n. Etym: [Heb. abaddon destruction, abyss, fr. abad to be
lost, to perish.]

1. The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as
Apollyon and Asmodeus.

2. Hell; the bottomless pit. [Poetic]
In all her gates, Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt. Milton.

ABAFT
A*baft", prep. Etym: [Pref. a-on + OE. baft, baften, biaften, AS.
beæftan; be by + æftan behind. See After, Aft, By.] (Naut.)

Defn: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft
the beam. See under Beam.

ABAFT
A*baft", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

ABAISANCE
A*bai"sance, n. Etym: [For obeisance; confused with F. abaisser, E.
abase]

Defn: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.

ABAISER
A*bai"ser, n.

Defn: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.

ABAIST
A*baist", p.p.

Defn: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABALIENATE
Ab*al"ien*ate, v.t. Etym: [L. abalienatus, p.p. of abalienare; ab +
alienus foreign, alien. See Alien.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]

3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys.

ABALIENATION
Ab*al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. abalienatio: cf. F. abalianation.]

Defn: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]

ABALONE
Ab`a*lo"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined
with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.
Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging
closely to the rocks.

ABAND
A*band", v.t. Etym: [Contracted from abandon.]

1. To abandon. [Obs.]
Enforced the kingdom to aband. Spenser.

2. To banish; to expel. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abandoned; p.pr. & vb.n. Abandoning.]
Etym: [OF. abandoner, F.abandonner; a (L. ad)+bandon permission,
authority, LL. bandum, bannum, public proclamation, interdiction,
bannire to proclaim, summon: of Germanic origin; cf. Goth. bandwjan
to show by signs, to designate OHG. banproclamation. The word meant
to proclaim, put under a ban, put under control; hence, as in OE., to
compel, subject, or to leave in the control of another, and hence, to
give up. See Ban.]

1. To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject. [Obs.]
That he might . . . abandon them from him. Udall.
Being all this time abandoned from your bed. Shak.

2. To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly;
to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a
person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to
surrender.
Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. I. Taylor.

3. Reflexively : To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-
control ; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly ; -- often in a bad
sense.
He abandoned himself . . . to his favorite vice. Macaulay.

4. (Mar. Law)

Defn: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person
gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
against.

Syn.
 -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate;
quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw
from.
 -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a
person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode
of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a
thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places,
opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked
vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The
Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to
the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when
used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad
sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of
something which the person should rightfully stand by and support;
as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's
principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not
necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village,
deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit,
association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been
familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the
paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used
either in a good or in a bad sense.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, n. Etym: [F. abandon. fr. abandonner. See Abandon, v.]

Defn: Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.]

ABANDON
A`ban`don", n. Etym: [F. See Abandon.]

Defn: A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

ABANDONED
A*ban"doned, a.

1. Forsaken, deserted. "Your abandoned streams." Thomson.

2. Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning
without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Syn.
 -- Profligate; dissolute; corrupt; vicious; depraved; reprobate;
wicked; unprincipled; graceless; vile.
 -- Abandoned, Profligate, Reprobate. These adjectives agree in
expressing the idea of great personal depravity. Profligate has
reference to open and shameless immoralities, either in private life
or political conduct; as, a profligate court, a profligate ministry.
Abandoned is stronger, and has reference to the searing of conscience
and hardening of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up
to iniquity; as, a man of abandoned character. Reprobate describes
the condition of one who has become insensible to reproof, and who is
morally abandoned and lost beyond hope of recovery.
God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Rom. i. 28.

ABANDONEDLY
A*ban"doned*ly, adv.

Defn: Unrestrainedly.

ABANDONEE
A*ban`don*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

ABANDONER
A*ban"don*er, n.

Defn: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.

ABANDONMENT
A*ban"don*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abandonnement.]

1. The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total
desertion; relinquishment.
The abandonment of the independence of Europe. Burke.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what
may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril
insured against.

3. (Com. Law)

Defn: (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to
mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is
bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle.

ABANDUM
A*ban"*dum, n. Etym: [LL. See Abandon.] (Law)

Defn: Anything forfeited or confiscated.

ABANET
Ab"a*net, n.

Defn: See Abnet.

ABANGA
A*ban"ga, n. Etym: [Name given by the negroes in the island of St.
Thomas.]

Defn: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of
which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

ABANNATION; ABANNITION
Ab`an*na"tion, Ab`an*nition, n. Etym: [LL. abannatio; ad + LL.
bannire to banish.] (Old Law)

Defn: Banishment. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABARTICULATION
Ab`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ab + E. articulation : cf. F.
abarticulation. See Article.] (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of
free motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.

ABASE
A*base", v.t. [imp.&p.p. Abased; p.pr. & vb. n. Abasing.] Etym: [F.
abaisser, LL. abassare, abbassare ; ad + bassare, fr. bassus low. See
Base, a.]

1. To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
[Archaic] Bacon.
Saying so, he abased his lance. Shelton.

2. To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition
in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to
degrade.
Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased. Luke xiv. ll.

Syn.
 -- To Abase, Debase, Degrade. These words agree in the idea of
bringing down from a higher to a lower state. Abase has reference to
a bringing down in condition or feelings; as to abase one's self
before God. Debase has reference to the bringing down of a thing in
purity, or making it base. It is, therefore, always used in a bad
sense, as, to debase the coin of the kingdom, to debase the mind by
vicious indulgence, to debase one's style by coarse or vulgar
expressions. Degrade has reference to a bringing down from some
higher grade or from some standard. Thus, a priest is degraded from
the clerical office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a
bringing down in character and just estimation; as, degraded by
intemperance, a degrading employment, etc. "Art is degraded when it
is regarded only as a trade."

ABASED
A*based", a.

1. Lowered; humbled.

2. (Her.) Etym: [F. abaissé.]

Defn: Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the
wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

ABASEDLY
A*bas"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Abjectly; downcastly.

ABASEMENT
A*base"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abaissement.]

Defn: The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of
being abased or humbled; humiliation.

ABASER
A*bas"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, abases.

ABASH
A*bash", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abashed; p.pr. & vb. n. Abashing.] Etym:
[OE. abaissen, abaisshen, abashen, OF.esbahir, F. ébahir, to
astonish, fr. L. ex + the interjection bah, expressing astonishment.
In OE. somewhat confused with abase. Cf. Finish.]

Defn: To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as
by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or
inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.
He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To confuse; confound; disconcert; shame.
 -- To Abash, Confuse, Confound. Abash is a stronger word than
confuse, but not so strong as confound. We are abashed when struck
either with sudden shame or with a humbling sense of inferiority; as,
Peter was abashed in the presence of those who are greatly his
superiors. We are confused when, from some unexpected or startling
occurrence, we lose clearness of thought and self-possession. Thus, a
witness is often confused by a severe cross-examination; a timid
person is apt to be confused in entering a room full of strangers. We
are confounded when our minds are overwhelmed, as it were, by
something wholly unexpected, amazing, dreadful, etc., so that we have
nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually confounded at the
discovery of his guilt.
Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. Milton.

ABASHEDLY
A*bash"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abashed manner.

ABASHMENT
A*bash"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ébahissement.]

Defn: The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

ABASIA
A*ba"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr. - not +  a step.] (Med.)

Defn: Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. -
- A*ba"sic (#), a.

ABASSI; ABASSIS
A*bas"si, A*bas"sis, n. Etym: [Ar.& Per. abasi, belonging to Abas (a
king of Persia).]

Defn: A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

ABATABLE
A*bat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

ABATE
A*bate", v.t. [imp.& p.p. Abated, p.pr. & vb.n. Abating.] Etym: [OF.
abatre to beat down, F. abattre, LL. abatere; ab or ad + batere,
battere (popular form for L. batuere to beat). Cf. Bate, Batter.]

1. To beat down; to overthrow. [Obs.]
The King of Scots . . . sore abated the walls. Edw. Hall.

2. To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or
degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; toto cut
short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. Deut. xxxiv. 7.

3. To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. Fuller.

4. To blunt. [Obs.]
To abate the edge of envy. Bacon.

5. To reduce in estimation; to deprive. [Obs.]
She hath abated me of half my train. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;
as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;
to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in
proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it
either wholly or in part.

ABATE
A*bate", v.i. Etym: [See Abate, v.t.]

1. To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain
abates, a storm abates.
The fury of Glengarry . . . rapidly abated. Macaulay.

2. To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a
writ abates. To abate into a freehold, To abate in lands (Law), to
enter into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, and
before the heir takes possession. See Abatement, 4.

Syn.
 -- To subside; decrease; intermit; decline; diminish; lessen.
 -- To Abate, Subside. These words, as here compared, imply a coming
down from some previously raised or exited state. Abate expresses
this in respect to degrees, and implies a diminution of force or of
intensity; as, the storm abates, the cold abates, the force of the
wind abates; or, the wind abates, a fever abates. Subside (to settle
down) has reference to a previous state of agitation or commotion;
as, the waves subside after a storm, the wind subsides into a calm.
When the words are used figuratively, the same distinction should be
observed. If we conceive of a thing as having different degrees of
intensity or strength, the word to be used is abate. Thus we say, a
man's anger abates, the ardor of one's love abates, "Winter rage
abates". But if the image be that of a sinking down into quiet from
preceding excitement or commotion, the word to be used is subside;
as, the tumult of the people subsides, the public mind subsided into
a calm. The same is the case with those emotions which are tumultuous
in their nature; as, his passion subsides, his joy quickly subsided,
his grief subsided into a pleasing melancholy. Yet if, in such cases,
we were thinking of the degree of violence of the emotion, we might
use abate; as, his joy will abate in the progress of time; and so in
other instances.

ABATE
A*bate, n.

Defn: Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABATEMENT
A*bate"ment, n. Etym: [OF. abatement, F. abattement.]

1. The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening,
diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the
abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

2. The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction;
deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

4. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after
the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Blackstone. Defense in abatement, Plea in abatement, (Law), plea to
the effect that from some formal defect (e.g. misnomer, want of
jurisdiction) the proceedings should be abated.

ABATER
A*bat"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abates.

ABATIS; ABATTIS
Ab"a*tis, Aba"t*tis, n. Etym: [F. abatis, abattis, mass of things
beaten or cut down, fr. abattre. See Abate.] (Fort.)

Defn: A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose
branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

ABATISED
Ab"a*tised, a.

Defn: Provided with an abatis.

ABATOR
A*ba"tor, n. (Law)

Defn: (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,
enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the
heir or devisee. Blackstone.

ABATTOIR
A`bat`toir", n.; pl. Abattoirs. Etym: [F., fr. abattre to beat down.
See Abate.]

Defn: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

ABATURE
Ab"a*ture, n. Etym: [F. abatture, fr. abattre. See Abate.]

Defn: Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing
through them. Crabb.

ABATVOIX
A`bat`voix", n. Etym: [F. abattre to beat down + voix voice.]

Defn: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

ABAWED
Ab*awed", p.p. Etym: [Perh. p.p. of a verb fr. OF. abaubir to
frighten, disconcert, fr. L. ad + balbus stammering.]

Defn: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABAXIAL; ABAXILE
Ab*ax"i*al, Ab*ax"ile, a. Etym: [L. ab + axis axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Away from the axis or central line; eccentric. Balfour.

ABAY
A*bay", n. Etym: [OF. abay barking.]

Defn: Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]

ABB
Abb, n. Etym: [AS. aweb, ab; pref. a- + web. See Web.]

Defn: Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for
the abb.

ABBA
Ab"ba, n. Etym: [Syriac abba father. See Abbot.]

Defn: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and
Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops
to the patriarch.

ABBACY
Ab"ba*cy, n.; pl. Abbacies. Etym: [L. abbatia, fr. abbas, abbatis,
abbot. See Abbey.]

Defn: The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

ABBATIAL
Ab*ba"tial, a. Etym: [LL. abbatialis : cf. F. abbatial.]

Defn: Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

ABBATICAL
Ab*bat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Abbatial. [Obs.]

ABBE
Ab"bé`, n.Etym: [F. abbé. See Abbot.]

Defn: The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an
abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one
vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Note: * After the 16th century, the name was given, in social
parlance, to candidates for some priory or abbey in the gift of the
crown. Many of these aspirants became well known in literary and
fashionable life. By further extension, the name came to be applied
to unbeneficed secular ecclesiastics generally. Littré.

ABBESS
Ab"bess, n. Etym: [OF.abaesse, abeesse, F. abbesse, L. abbatissa,
fem. of abbas, abbatis, abbot. See Abbot.]

Defn: A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of
nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have
over the monks. See Abbey.

ABBEY
Ab"bey, n.; pl. Abbeys. Etym: [OF. abaïe, F. abbaye, L. abbatia, fr.
abbas abbot. See Abbot.]

1. A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the
world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic
building or buildings.

Note: The men are called monks, and governed by an abbot; the women
are called nuns, and governed by an abbess.

2. The church of a monastery.

Note: In London, the Abbey means Westminster Abbey, and in Scotland,
the precincts of the Abbey of Holyrood. The name is also retained for
a private residence on the site of an abbey; as, Newstead Abbey, the
residence of Lord Byron.

Syn.
 -- Monastery; convent; nunnery; priory; cloister. See Cloister.

ABBOT
Ab"bot, n. Etym: [AS. abbod, abbad, L. abbas, abbatis, Gr. abba
father. Cf. Abba, AbbÉ.]

1. The superior or head of an abbey.

2. One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys. Encyc.
Brit. Abbot of the people. a title formerly given to one of the chief
magistrates in Genoa.
 -- Abbot of Misrule (or Lord of Misrule), in mediæval times, the
master of revels, as at Christmas; in Scotland called the Abbot of
Unreason. Encyc. Brit.

ABBOTSHIP
Ab"bot*ship, n. Etym: [Abbot + -ship.]

Defn: The state or office of an abbot.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abbreviated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Abbreviating.] Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p. of abbreviare; ad +
breviare to shorten, fr. brevis short. See Abridge.]

1. To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction
or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
It is one thing to abbreviate by contracting, another by cutting off.
Bacon.

2. (Math.)

Defn: To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, a. Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p.]

1. Abbreviated; abridged; shortened. [R.] "The abbreviate form."
Earle.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the
ordinary type.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, n.

Defn: An abridgment. [Obs.] Elyot.

ABBREVIATED
Ab*bre"vi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

ABBREVIATION
Ab*bre`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abbreviatio: cf. F. abbréviation.]

1. The act of shortening, or reducing.

2. The result of abbreviating; an abridgment. Tylor.

3. The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and
omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which
they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of
America.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it
respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.

ABBREVIATOR
Ab*bre"vi*a`tor, n. Etym: [LL.: cf. F. abbréviateur.]

1. One who abbreviates or shortens.

2. One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose
duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply
of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into
official form.

ABBREVIATORY
Ab*bre"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

ABBREVIATURE
Ab*bre"vi*a*ture, n.

1. An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form. [Obs.]

2. An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
This is an excellent abbreviature of the whole duty of a Christian.
Jer. Taylor.

ABB WOOL
Abb" wool.

Defn: See Abb.

A B C
A B C".

1. The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole
alphabet.

2. A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.
[Obs.]

3. The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance. A
B C book, a primer. Shak.

ABDAL
Ab"dal, n. Etym: [Ar. badil, pl. abdal, a substitute, a good,
religious man, saint, fr. badala to change, substitute.]

Defn: A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

ABDERIAN
Ab*de"ri*an, a. Etym: [From Abdera, a town in Thrace, of which place
Democritus, the Laughing Philosopher, was a native.]

Defn: Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.

ABDERITE
Ab*de"rite, n. Etym: [L. Abderita, Abderites, fr. Gr. '

Defn: An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus,
the Laughing Philosopher.

ABDEST
Ab"dest, n. Etym: [Per. abdast; ab water + dast hand.]

Defn: Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a
Mohammedan rite. Heyse.

ABDICABLE
Ab"di*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abdicated.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. abdicans, p.pr. of abdicare.]

Defn: Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, n.

Defn: One who abdicates. Smart.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abdicated; p.pr. & vb.n. Abdicating.]
Etym: [L. abdicatus, p.p. of abdicare; ab + dicare to proclaim, akin
to dicere to say. See Diction.]

1. To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw
definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station,
dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

Note: The word abdicate was held to mean, in the case of James II.,
to abandon without a formal surrender.
The cross-bearers abdicated their service. Gibbon.

2. To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty,
right, etc.
He abdicates all right to be his own governor. Burke.
The understanding abdicates its functions. Froude.

3. To reject; to cast off. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

4. (Civil Law)

Defn: To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child;
to disown; to disinherit.

Syn.
 -- To give up; quit; vacate; relinquish; forsake; abandon; resign;
renounce; desert.
 -- To Abdicate, Resign. Abdicate commonly expresses the act of a
monarch in voluntary and formally yielding up sovereign authority;
as, to abdicate the government. Resign is applied to the act of any
person, high or low, who gives back an office or trust into the hands
of him who conferred it. Thus, a minister resigns, a military officer
resigns, a clerk resigns. The expression, "The king resigned his
crown," sometimes occurs in our later literature, implying that he
held it from his people.
 -- There are other senses of resign which are not here brought into
view.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.i.

Defn: To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or
dignity.
Though a king may abdicate for his own person, he cannot abdicate for
the monarchy. Burke.

ABDICATION
Ab`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. abdicatio: cf. F. abdication.]

Defn: The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office,
dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation
of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power,
authority.

ABDICATIVE
Ab"di*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. abdicativus.]

Defn: Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey.

ABDICATOR
Ab"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who abdicates.

ABDITIVE
Ab"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. abditivus, fr. abdere to hide.]

Defn: Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey.

ABDITORY
Ab"di*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. abditorium.]

Defn: A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell.

ABDOMEN
Ab*do"men, n. Etym: [L. abdomen (a word of uncertain etymol.): cf. F.
abdomen.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the
pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the
peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In
man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the
commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic
cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in
insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abdominal.]

1. Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal
regions, muscles, cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,
abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike opening
on each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; --
called also inguinal ring.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, n.; E. pl. Abdominals, L. pl. Abdominales.

Defn: A fish of the group Abdominales.

ABDOMINALES
Ab*dom`i*na"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL., masc. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and
many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind
the pectorals.

ABDOMINALIA
Ab*dom`i*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

ABDOMINOSCOPY
Ab*dom`i*nos"co*py, n. Etym: [L. abdomen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.

ABDOMINOTHORACIC
Ab*dom`i*no*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

ABDOMINOUS
Ab*dom"i*nous, a.

Defn: Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese
fan. Cowper.

ABDUCE
Ab*duce", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abduced; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducing.] Etym:
[L. abducere to lead away; ab + ducere to lead. See Duke, and cf.
Abduct.]

Defn: To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different
part. [Obs.]
If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will not
duplicate. Sir T. Browne.

ABDUCT
Ab*duct", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abducted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducting.] Etym:
[L. abductus, p.p. of abducere. See Abduce.]

1. To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human
being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

2. To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.

ABDUCTION
Ab*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. abductio: cf. F. abduction.]

1. The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying
away. Roget.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The movement which separates a limb or other part from the
axis, or middle line, of the body.

3. (Law)

Defn: The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human
being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.

4. (Logic)

Defn: A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident,
but the minor is only probable.

ABDUCTOR
Ab*duc"tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

1. One who abducts.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median
line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye
outward.

ABEAM
A*beam", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + beam.] (Naut.)

Defn: On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with
the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

ABEAR
A*bear", v.t. Etym: [AS. aberan; pref. a- + beran to bear.]

1. To bear; to behave. [Obs.]
So did the faery knight himself abear. Spenser.

2. To put up with; to endure. [Prov.] Dickens.

ABEARANCE
A*bear"ance, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone.

ABEARING
A*bear"ing, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More.

ABECEDARIAN
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. abecedarius. A word from the first
four letters of the alphabet.]

1. One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

2. One engaged in teaching the alphabet. Wood.

ABECEDARIAN; ABECEDARY
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, A`be*ce"da*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet;
alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc.,
compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinct
portions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet.
Hook.

ABECEDARY
A`be*ce"da*ry, n.

Defn: A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.]
Fuller.

ABED
A*bed", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- in, on + bed.]

1. In bed, or on the bed.
Not to be abed after midnight. Shak.

2. To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a
child). Shak.

ABEGGE
A*beg"ge.

Defn: Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABELE
A*bele", n. Etym: [D. abeel (abeel-boom), OF. abel, aubel, fr. a dim.
of L. albus white.]

Defn: The white polar (Populus alba).
Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.

ABELIAN; ABELITE; ABELONIAN
A*bel"i*an, A"bel*ite, A`bel*o"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St.
Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence,
after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

ABELMOSK
A"bel*mosk`, n. Etym: [NL. abelmoschus, fr. Ar. abu-l-misk father of
musk, i.e., producing musk. See Musk.] (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus-
moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose
musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes
called musk mallow.

ABER-DE-VINE
Ab`er-de-vine", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and
yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

ABERR
Ab*err", v.i. Etym: [L. aberrare. See Aberrate.]

Defn: To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABERRANCE; ABERRANCY
Ab*er"rance, Ab*er"ran*cy, n.

Defn: State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way;
deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.),
the deviation of a curve from a circular form.

ABERRANT
Ab*er"rant, a. Etym: [L. aberrans, -rantis, p.pr. of aberrare.]

Defn: See Aberr.]

1. Wandering; straying from the right way.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional;
abnormal.
The more aberrant any form is, the greater must have been the number
of connecting forms which, on my theory, have been exterminated.
Darwin.

ABERRATE
Ab"er*rate, v.i. Etym: [L. aberratus, p.pr. of aberrare; ab + errare
to wander. See Err.]

Defn: To go astray; to diverge. [R.]
Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey.

ABERRATION
Ab`er*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aberratio: cf. F. aberration. See
Aberrate.]

1. The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral
rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type. "The aberration of
youth." Hall. "Aberrations from theory." Burke.

2. A partial alienation of reason. "Occasional aberrations of
intellect." Lingard.
Whims, which at first are the aberrations of a single brain, pass
with heat into epidemic form. I. Taylor.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A small periodical change of position in the stars and other
heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light
and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the
observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy or
diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when
greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.
Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the
motion of the planet relative to the earth.

4. (Opt.)

Defn: The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays
of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of
such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due
to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving
different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic
aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored
rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate
for it.

6. (Law)

Defn: The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an
instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; alienation; mania;
dementia; hallucination; illusion; delusion. See Insanity.

ABERRATIONAL
Ab`er*ra"tion*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by aberration.

ABERUNCATE
Ab`e*run"cate, v.t. Etym: [L. aberuncare, for aberruncare. See
Averruncate.]

Defn: To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABERUNCATOR
Ab`e*run"ca*tor, n.

Defn: A weeding machine.

ABET
A*bet", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abetted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abetting.] Etym:
[OF. abeter; a (L. ad) + beter to bait (as a bear), fr. Icel. beita
to set dogs on, to feed, originally, to cause to bite, fr. Icel. bita
to bite, hence to bait, to incite. See Bait, Bet.]

1. To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad
sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in
his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection. "The whole
tribe abets the villany." South.
Would not the fool abet the stealth, Who rashly thus exposed his
wealth Gay.

2. To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
[Obs.].
Our duty is urged, and our confidence abetted. Jer. Taylor.

3. (Law)

Defn: To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission
of an offense.

Syn.
 -- To incite; instigate; set on; egg on; foment; advocate;
countenance; encourage; second; uphold; aid; assist; support;
sustain; back; connive at.

ABET
A*bet", n. Etym: [OF. abet, fr. abeter.]

Defn: Act of abetting; aid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABETMENT
A*bet"ment, n.

Defn: The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.

ABETTAL
A*bet"tal, n.

Defn: Abetment. [R.]

ABETTER; ABETTOR
A*bet"ter, A*bet*tor, n.

Defn: One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

Note: The form abettor is the legal term and also in general use.

Syn.
 -- Abettor, Accessory, Accomplice. These words denote different
degrees of complicity in some deed or crime. An abettor is one who
incites or encourages to the act, without sharing in its performance.
An accessory supposes a principal offender. One who is neither the
chief actor in an offense, nor present at its performance, but
accedes to or becomes involved in its guilt, either by some previous
or subsequent act, as of instigating, encouraging, aiding, or
concealing, etc., is an accessory. An accomplice is one who
participates in the commission of an offense, whether as principal or
accessory. Thus in treason, there are no abettors or accessories, but
all are held to be principals or accomplices.

ABEVACUATION
Ab`e*vac"u*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. ab- + evacuation.] (Med.)

Defn: A partial evacuation. Mayne.

ABEYANCE
A*bey"ance, n. Etym: [OF. abeance expectation, longing; a (L. ad) +
baer, beer, to gape, to look with open mouth, to expect, F. bayer,
LL. badare to gape.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

Note: When there is no person in existence in whom an inheritance (or
a dignity) can vest, it is said to be in abeyance, that is, in
expectation; the law considering it as always potentially existing,
and ready to vest whenever a proper owner appears. Blackstone.

2. Suspension; temporary suppression.
Keeping the sympathies of love and admiration in a dormant state, or
state of abeyance. De Quincey.

ABEYANCY
A*bey"an*cy, n.

Defn: Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne.

ABEYANT
A*bey"ant, a.

Defn: Being in a state of abeyance.

ABGEORDNETENHAUS
Ab"ge*ord`ne*ten*haus`, n.  [G.]

Defn: See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.

ABHAL
Ab"hal, n.

Defn: The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

ABHOMINABLE
Ab*hom"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Abominable.

Note: [A false orthography anciently used; h was foisted into various
words; hence abholish, for abolish, etc.]
This is abhominable, which he [Don Armado] would call abominable.
Shak. Love's Labor's Lost, v. 1.

ABHOMINAL
Ab*hom`i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab away from + homo, hominis, man.]

Defn: Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abhorred; p. pr. & vb. n. Abhorring.]
Etym: [L. abhorrere; ab + horrere to bristle, shiver, shudder: cf. F.
abhorrer. See Horrid.]

1. To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or
detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to
extremity; to loathe.
Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. Rom. xii. 9.

2. To fill with horror or disgust. [Obs.]
It doth abhor me now I speak the word. Shak.

3. (Canon Law)

Defn: To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.]
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To hate; detest; loathe; abominate. See Hate.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. i.

Defn: To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary
or averse; -- with from. [Obs.] "To abhor from those vices." Udall.
Which is utterly abhorring from the end of all law. Milton.

ABHORRENCE
Ab*hor"rence, n.

Defn: Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.

ABHORRENCY
Ab*hor"ren*cy, n.

Defn: Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke.

ABHORRENT
Ab*hor"rent, a. Etym: [L. abhorens, -rentis, p. pr. of abhorrere.]

1. Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing;
hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
The persons most abhorrent from blood and treason. Burke.
The arts of pleasure in despotic courts I spurn abhorrent. Clover.

2. Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by
to. "Injudicious profanation, so abhorrent to our stricter
principles." Gibbon.

3. Detestable. "Pride, abhorrent as it is." I. Taylor.

ABHORRENTLY
Ab*hor"rent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abhorrence.

ABHORRER
Ab*hor"rer, n.

Defn: One who abhors. Hume.

ABHORRIBLE
Ab*hor"ri*ble, a.

Defn: Detestable. [R.]

ABHORRING
Ab*hor"ring, n.

1. Detestation. Milton.

2. Object of abhorrence. Isa. lxvi. 24.

ABIB
A"bib, n. Etym: [Heb. abib, lit. an ear of corn. The month was so
called from barley being at that time in ear.]

Defn: The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity
this month was called Nisan. Kitto.

ABIDANCE
A*bid"ance, n.

Defn: The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine.
Fuller.
A judicious abidance by rules. Helps.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abode, formerly Abid(#); p. pr. & vb. n.
Abiding.] Etym: [AS. abidan; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bidan to bide. See Bide.]

1. To wait; to pause; to delay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to
sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in
before a place.
Let the damsel abide with us a few days. Gen. xxiv. 55.

3. To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue;
to remain.
Let every man abide in the same calling. 1 Cor. vii. 20.
Followed by by: To abide by. (a) To stand to; to adhere; to maintain.
The poor fellow was obstinate enough to abide by what he said at
first. Fielding.
(b) To acquiesce; to conform to; as, to abide by a decision or an
award.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. t.

1. To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I
abide my time. "I will abide the coming of my lord." Tennyson.

Note: [[Obs.], with a personal object.
Bonds and afflictions abide me. Acts xx. 23.

2. To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
[Thou] shalt abide her judgment on it. Tennyson.

3. To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.
She could not abide Master Shallow. Shak.

4.

Note: [Confused with aby to pay for. See Aby.]

Defn: To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton.

ABIDER
A*bid"er, n.

1. One who abides, or continues. [Obs.] "Speedy goers and strong
abiders." Sidney.

2. One who dwells; a resident. Speed.

ABIDING
A*bid"ing, a.

Defn: Continuing; lasting.

ABIDINGLY
A*bid"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Permanently. Carlyle.

ABIES
A"bi*es, n. Etym: [L., fir tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam
fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to
this genus.

ABIETENE
Ab"i*e*tene, n. Etym: [L. abies, abietis, a fir tree.]

Defn: A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut
pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

ABIETIC
Ab`i*et"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic
acid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.

ABIETIN; ABIETINE
Ab"i*e*tin, Ab"i*e*tine, n. Etym: [See Abietene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam.
It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in
alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and
in ether. Watts.

ABIETINIC
Ab`i*e*tin"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

ABIETITE
Ab"i*e*tite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the
common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc.

ABIGAIL
Ab"i*gail, n. Etym: [The proper name used as an appellative.]

Defn: A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys.
Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curls
for sleeping in. Leslie.

ABILIMENT
A*bil"i*ment, n.

Defn: Habiliment. [Obs.]

ABILITY
A*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Abilities(#). Etym: [F. habileté, earlier
spelling habilité (with silent h), L. habilitas aptitude, ability,
fr. habilis apt. See Able.]

Defn: The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether
physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity;
skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,
resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to
send relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29.
Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by
study. Bacon.
The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Capacity; talent; cleverness; faculty; capability; efficiency;
aptitude; aptness; address; dexterity; skill. Ability, Capacity.
These words come into comparison when applied to the higher
intellectual powers. Ability has reference to the active exercise of
our faculties. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that
ease and promptitude of execution which arise from mental training.
Thus, we speak of the ability with which a book is written, an
argument maintained, a negotiation carried on, etc. It always
something to be done, and the power of doing it. Capacity has
reference to the receptive powers. In its higher exercises it
supposes great quickness of apprehension and breadth of intellect,
with an uncommon aptitude for acquiring and retaining knowledge.
Hence it carries with it the idea of resources and undeveloped power.
Thus we speak of the extraordinary capacity of such men as Lord
Bacon, Blaise Pascal, and Edmund Burke. "Capacity," says H. Taylor,
"is requisite to devise, and ability to execute, a great enterprise."
The word abilities, in the plural, embraces both these qualities, and
denotes high mental endowments.

ABIME; ABYME
A*bime" or A*byme", n. Etym: [F. abîme. See Abysm.]

Defn: A abyss. [Obs.]

ABIOGENESIS
Ab`i*o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless
matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living
parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed
to biogenesis.
I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced by
not living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870.

ABIOGENETIC
Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

ABIOGENIST
Ab`i*og"e*nist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One who believes that life can be produced independently of
antecedent. Huxley.

ABIOGENOUS
Ab`i*og"e*nous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Produced by spontaneous generation.

ABIOGENY
Ab`i*og"e*ny, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Abiogenesis.

ABIOLOGICAL
Ab`i*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. biological.]

Defn: Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

ABIRRITANT
Ab*ir"ri*tant, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that diminishes irritation.

ABIRRITATE
Ab*ir"ri*tate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + irritate.] (Med.)

Defn: To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

ABIRRITATION
Ab*ir`ri*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation;
debility; want of strength; asthenia.

ABIRRITATIVE
Ab*ir"ri*ta*tive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by abirritation or debility.

ABIT
A*bit",

Defn: 3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, a. Etym: [L. abjectus, p. p. of abjicere to throw away; ab +
jacere to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

1. Cast down; low-lying. [Obs.]
From the safe shore their floating carcasses And broken chariot
wheels; so thick bestrown Abject and lost lay these, covering the
flood. Milton.

2. Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded;
servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune,
thoughts. "Base and abject flatterers." Addison. "An abject liar."
Macaulay.
And banish hence these abject, lowly dreams. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Mean; groveling; cringing; mean-spirited; slavish; ignoble;
worthless; vile; beggarly; contemptible; degraded.

ABJECT
Ab*ject", v. t. Etym: [From Abject, a.]

Defn: To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to
debase. [Obs.] Donne.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, n.

Defn: A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a
castaway. [Obs.]
Shall these abjects, these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of
pleasure I. Taylor.

ABJECTEDNESS
Ab*ject"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle.

ABJECTION
Ab*jec"tion, n. Etym: [F. abjection, L. abjectio.]

1. The act of bringing down or humbling. "The abjection of the king
and his realm." Joe.

2. The state of being rejected or cast out. [R.]
An adjection from the beatific regions where God, and his angels and
saints, dwell forever. Jer. Taylor.

3. A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement;
degradation.
That this should be termed baseness, abjection of mind, or servility,
is it credible Hooker.

ABJECTLY
Ab"ject*ly, adv.

Defn: Meanly; servilely.

ABJECTNESS
Ab"ject*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Grew.

ABJUDGE
Ab*judge", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + judge, v. Cf. Abjudicate.]

Defn: To take away by judicial decision. [R.]

ABJUDICATE
Ab*ju"di*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjudicatus, p. p. of abjudicare; ab +
judicare. See Judge, and cf. Abjudge.]

Defn: To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash.

ABJUDICATION
Ab*ju`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles.

ABJUGATE
Ab"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjugatus, p. p. of abjugare.]

Defn: To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABJUNCTIVE
Ab*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. abjunctus, p. p. of abjungere; ab +
jungere to join.]

Defn: Exceptional. [R.]
It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive to
the universal. I. Taylor.

ABJURATION
Ab`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. abjuratio: cf. F. abjuration.]

1. The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as,
abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave
the country and never to return.

2. A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.
Oath of abjuration, an oath asserting the right of the present royal
family to the crown of England, and expressly abjuring allegiance to
the descendants of the Pretender. Brande & C.

ABJURATORY
Ab*ju"ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing abjuration.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Abjuring.]
Etym: [L. abjurare to deny upon oath; ab + jurare to swear, fr. jus,
juris, right, law; cf. F. abjurer. See Jury.]

1. To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure
allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon
it forever.

2. To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon
forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors. "Magic I here
abjure." Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Renounce.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. i.

Defn: To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet.

ABJUREMENT
Ab*jure"ment, n.

Defn: Renunciation. [R.]

ABJURER
Ab*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who abjures.

ABLACTATE
Ab*lac"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablactatus, p. p. of ablactare; ab +
lactare to suckle, fr. lac milk.]

Defn: To wean. [R.] Bailey.

ABLACTATION
Ab`lac*ta"tion. n.

1. The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from
their dam. Blount.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by
approach.

ABLAQUEATE
Ab*la"que*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablaqueatus, p. p. of. ablaqueare; fr.
ab + laqueus a noose.]

Defn: To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLAQUEATION
Ab*la`que*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablaqueatio.]

Defn: The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose
them to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ABLASTEMIC
Ab`las*tem"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Non-germinal.

ABLATION
Ab*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablatio, fr. ablatus p. p. of auferre to
carry away; ab + latus, p. p. of ferre carry: cf. F. ablation. See
Tolerate.]

1. A carrying or taking away; removal. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Extirpation. Dunglison.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Wearing away; superficial waste. Tyndall.

ABLATITIOUS
Ab`la*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, a. Etym: [F. ablatif, ablative, L. ablativus fr. ablatus.
See Ablation.]

1. Taking away or removing. [Obs.]
Where the heart is forestalled with misopinion, ablative directions
are found needful to unteach error, ere we can learn truth. Bp. Hall.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other
languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,
separation, or taking away.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, (Gram.)

Defn: The ablative case. ablative absolute, a construction in Latin,
in which a noun in the ablative case has a participle (either
expressed or implied), agreeing with it in gender, number, and case,
both words forming a clause by themselves and being unconnected,
grammatically, with the rest of the sentence; as, Tarquinio regnante,
Pythagoras venit, i. e., Tarquinius reigning, Pythagoras came.

ABLAUT
Ab"laut, n. Etym: [Ger., off-sound; ab off + laut sound.] (Philol.)

Defn: The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating
a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation;
as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle.

ABLAZE
A*blaze", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blaze.]

1. On fire; in a blaze, gleaming. Milman.
All ablaze with crimson and gold. Longfellow.

2. In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.
The young Cambridge democrats were all ablaze to assist Torrijos.
Carlyle.

ABLE
A"ble, a. [Comp. Abler; superl. Ablest.] Etym: [OF. habile, L.
habilis that may be easily held or managed, apt, skillful, fr. habere
to have, hold. Cf. Habile and see Habit.]

1. Fit; adapted; suitable. [Obs.]
A many man, to ben an abbot able. Chaucer.

2. Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or
resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of
qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent;
qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able
to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to
endure pain; able to play on a piano.

3. Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental
powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the
ablest man in the senate; an able speech.
No man wrote abler state papers. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to
inherit or devise property.

Note: Able for, is Scotticism.
"Hardly able for such a march." Robertson.

Syn.
 -- Competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective; capable;
skillful; clever; vigorous; powerful.

ABLE
A"ble, v. t. Etym: [See Able, a.] [Obs.]

1. To make able; to enable; to strengthen. Chaucer.

2. To vouch for. "I 'll able them." Shak.

ABLE; -ABLE; IBLE; -IBLE
*a*ble. Etym: [F. -able, L. -abilis.]

Defn: An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be;
fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as,
movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable,
fit to be blamed; salable.

Note: The form ible is used in the same sense.

Note: It is difficult to say when we are not to use -able instead of
-ible. "Yet a rule may be laid down as to when we are to use it. To
all verbs, then, from the Anglo-Saxon, to all based on the
uncorrupted infinitival stems of Latin verbs of the first
conjugation, and to all substantives, whencesoever sprung, we annex -
able only." Fitzed. Hall.

ABLE-BODIED
A`ble-bod"ied, a.

Defn: Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.
"Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.
 -- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablegatus, p. p. of ablegare; ab + legare
to send with a commission. See Legate.]

Defn: To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A representative of the pope charged with important commissions
in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly
named cardinal his insignia of office.

ABLEGATION
Ab`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablegatio.]

Defn: The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ABLE-MINDED
A`ble-mind"ed, a.

Defn: Having much intellectual power.
 -- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.

ABLENESS
A"ble*ness, n.

Defn: Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]

ABLEPSY
Ab"lep*sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Blindness. [R.] Urquhart.

ABLER
A"bler, a.,

Defn: comp. of Able.
 -- A"blest, a.,

Defn: superl. of Able.

ABLET; ABLEN
Ab"let, Ab"len Etym: [F. ablet, ablette, a dim. fr. LL. abula, for
albula, dim. of albus white. Cf. Abele.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

ABLIGATE
Ab"li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ab + ligatus, p. p. of ligare to tie.]

Defn: To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.]

ABLIGURITION
Ab*lig`u*ri"tion, n. Etym: [L. abligurito, fr. abligurire to spend in
luxurious indulgence; ab + ligurire to be lickerish, dainty, fr.
lingere to lick.]

Defn: Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLINS
A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]

Defn: Perhaps. [Scot.]

ABLOOM
A*bloom", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + bloom.]

Defn: In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.

ABLUDE
Ab*lude", v. t. Etym: [L. abludere; ab + ludere to play.]

Defn: To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABLUENT
Ab"lu*ent, a. Etym: [L. abluens, p. pr. of. abluere to wash away; ab
+ luere (lavere, lavare). See Lave.]

Defn: Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A detergent.

ABLUSH
A*blush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blush.]

Defn: Blushing; ruddy.

ABLUTION
Ab*lu`tion, n. Etym: [L. ablutio, fr. abluere: cf. F. ablution. See
Abluent.]

1. The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the
body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.

2. The water used in cleansing. "Cast the ablutions in the main."
Pope.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the
priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then,
as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk
by the priest.

ABLUTIONARY
Ab*lu"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ablution.

ABLUVION
Ab*lu"vi*on, n. Etym: [LL. abluvio. See Abluent.]

Defn: That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight.

ABLY
A"bly, adv.

Defn: In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned,
said.

-ABLY
-a*bly(#).

Defn: A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as,
favorably.

ABNEGATE
Ab"ne*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abnegated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abnegating.] Etym: [L. abnegatus,p. p. of abnegare; ab + negare to
deny. See Deny.]

Defn: To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar.

ABNEGATION
Ab`ne*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abnegatio: cf. F. abnégation.]

Defn: a denial; a renunciation.
With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they may
retain the friendship of the court. Knox.

ABNEGATIVE
Ab"ne*ga*tive, a. Etym: [L. abnegativus.]

Defn: Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke.

ABNEGATOR
Ab"ne*ga`tor(#), n. [L.]

Defn: One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.]

ABNET
Ab"net, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.

ABNODATE
Ab"no*date, v. t. Etym: [L. abnodatus, p. p. of abnodare; ab + nodus
knot.]

Defn: To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount.

ABNODATION
Ab`no*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb.

ABNORMAL
Ab*nor"mal, a. Etym: [For earlier anormal.F. anormal, LL. anormalus
for anomalus, Gr. abnormis. See Anomalous, Abnormous, Anormal.]

Defn: Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type;
anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous;
irregular. " Froude.

ABNORMALITY
Ab`nor*mal"i*ty, n.; pl. Abnormalities.

1. The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
Darwin.

2. Something abnormal.

ABNORMALLY
Ab*nor"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin.

ABNORMITY
Ab*nor"mi*ty, n.; pl. Abnormities. Etym: [LL. abnormitas. See
Abnormous.]

Defn: Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
"An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney.

ABNORMOUS
Ab*nor"mous, a. Etym: [L. abnormis; ab + norma rule. See Normal.]

Defn: Abnormal; irregular. Hallam.
A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspected
coadjutor. State Trials.

ABOARD
A*board", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on, in + board.]

Defn: On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within
a railway car.

2. Alongside; as, close aboard. Naut.: To fall aboard of, to strike a
ship's side; to fall foul of.
 -- To haul the tacks aboard, to set the courses.
 -- To keep the land aboard, to hug the shore.
 -- To lay (a ship) aboard, to place one's own ship close alongside
of (a ship) for fighting.

ABOARD
A*board", prep.

1. On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.

2. Across; athwart. [Obs.]
Nor iron bands aboard The Pontic Sea by their huge navy cast.
Spenser.

ABODANCE
A*bod"ance, n. Etym: [See Bode.]

Defn: An omen; a portending. [Obs.]

ABODE
A*bode", pret.

Defn: of Abide.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [OE. abad, abood, fr. abiden to abide. See Abide.
For the change of vowel, cf. abode, imp. of abide.]

1. Act of waiting; delay. [Obs.] Shak.
And with her fled away without abode. Spenser.

2. Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.
He waxeth at your abode here. Fielding.

3. Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place;
residence; a dwelling; a habitation.
Come, let me lead you to our poor abode. Wordsworth.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [See Bode, v. t.]

Defn: An omen. [Obs.]
High-thundering Juno's husband stirs my spirit with true abodes.
Chapman.

ABODE
A*bode", v. t.

Defn: To bode; to foreshow. [Obs.] Shak.

ABODE
A*bode", v. i.

Defn: To be ominous. [Obs.] Dryden.

ABODEMENT
A*bode"ment, n.

Defn: A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affright
us." Shak.

ABODING
A*bod"ing, n.

Defn: A foreboding. [Obs.]

ABOLISH
A*bol"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abolished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abolishing.] Etym: [F. abolir, L. abolere, aboletum; ab + olere to
grow. Cf. Finish.]

1. To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws,
customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to
abolish folly.

2. To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.
[Archaic]
And with thy blood abolish so reproachful blot. Spenser.
His quick instinctive hand Caught at the hilt, as to abolish him.
Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To Abolish, Repeal, Abrogate, Revoke, Annul, Nullify, Cancel.
These words have in common the idea of setting aside by some
overruling act. Abolish applies particularly to things of a permanent
nature, such as institutions, usages, customs, etc.; as, to abolish
monopolies, serfdom, slavery. Repeal describes the act by which the
legislature of a state sets aside a law which it had previously
enacted. Abrogate was originally applied to the repeal of a law by
the Roman people; and hence, when the power of making laws was
usurped by the emperors, the term was applied to their act of setting
aside the laws. Thus it came to express that act by which a sovereign
or an executive government sets aside laws, ordinances, regulations,
treaties, conventions, etc. Revoke denotes the act or recalling some
previous grant which conferred, privilege, etc.; as, to revoke a
decree, to revoke a power of attorney, a promise, etc. Thus, also, we
speak of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Annul is used in a
more general sense, denoting simply to make void; as, to annul a
contract, to annul an agreement. Nullify is an old word revived in
this country, and applied to the setting of things aside either by
force or by total disregard; as, to nullify an act of Congress.
Cancel is to strike out or annul, by a deliberate exercise of power,
something which has operative force.

ABOLISHABLE
A*bol"ish*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissable.]

Defn: Capable of being abolished.

ABOLISHER
A*bol"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who abolishes.

ABOLISHMENT
A*bol"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissement.]

Defn: The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker.

ABOLITION
Ab"o*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. abolitio, fr. abolere: cf. F. abolition.
See Abolish.]

Defn: The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an
annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of
slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees,
ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.

Note: The application of this word to persons is now unusual or
obsolete

ABOLITIONISM
Ab`o*li"tion*ism, n.

Defn: The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce.

ABOLITIONIST
Ab`o*li"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A person who favors the abolition of any institution,
especially negro slavery.

ABOLITIONIZE
Ab`o*li`tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett.

ABOMA
A*bo"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).

ABOMASUM; ABOMASUS
Ab`o*ma"sum, Ab`o*ma"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ab + omasum (a Celtic
word.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from
the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.

ABOMINABLE
A*bom"i*na*ble, a. Etym: [F. abominable. L. abominalis. See
Abominate.]

1. Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious
in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.

2. Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive. [Obs.]

Note: Juliana Berners . . . informs us that in her time [15th c.],
"abomynable syght of monkes" was elegant English for "a large company
of friars." G. P. Marsh.

ABOMINABLENESS
A*bom"i*na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley.

ABOMINABLY
A*bom"i*na*bly, adv.

Defn: In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.

ABOMINATE
A*bom"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abominated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abominating.] Etym: [L. abominatus, p. p. or abominari to deprecate
as ominous, to abhor, to curse; ab + omen a foreboding. See Omen.]

Defn: To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as
if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.

Syn.
 -- To hate; abhor; loathe; detest. See Hate.

ABOMINATION
A*bom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [OE. abominacioun, -cion, F. abominatio.
See Abominate.]

1. The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence;
detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.

2. That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully
vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful
or shameful vice; pollution.
Antony, most large in his abominations. Shak.

3. A cause of pollution or wickedness.

Syn.
 -- Detestation; loathing; abhorrence; disgust; aversion;
loathsomeness; odiousness. Sir W. Scott.

ABOON
A*boon", prep.

Defn: and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott.
The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake.

ABORAL
Ab*o"ral, a. Etym: [L. ab. + E. oral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.

ABORD
A*bord", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield.

ABORD
A*bord", v. t. Etym: [F. aborder, à (L. ad) + bord rim, brim, or side
of a vessel. See Border, Board.]

Defn: To approach; to accost. [Obs.] Digby.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, a. Etym: [See Aborigines.]

1. First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal
tribes of America. "Mantled o'er with aboriginal turf." Wordsworth.

2. Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, n.

1. An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.

2. An animal or a plant native to the region.
It may well be doubted whether this frog is an aboriginal of these
islands. Darwin.

ABORIGINALITY
Ab`o*rig`i*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev.

ABORIGINALLY
Ab`o*rig"i*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: Primarily.

ABORIGINES
Ab`o*rig"i*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L. Aborigines; ab + origo, especially
the first inhabitants of Latium, those who originally (ab origine)
inhabited Latium or Italy. See Origin.]

1. The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.

2. The original fauna and flora of a geographical area

ABORSEMENT
A*borse"ment, n.

Defn: Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABORSIVE
A*bor"sive, a.

Defn: Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABORT
A*bort", v. i. Etym: [L. abortare, fr. abortus, p. p. of aboriri; ab
+ oriri to rise, to be born. See Orient.]

1. To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain
rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.

ABORT
A*bort", n. Etym: [L. abortus, fr. aboriri.]

1. An untimely birth. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

2. An aborted offspring. [Obs.] Holland.

ABORTED
A*bort"ed, a.

1. Brought forth prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal
development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.
The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their mature
state. Owen.

ABORTICIDE
A*bor"ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. abortus + caedere to kill. See Abort.]
(Med.)

Defn: The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.

ABORTIFACIENT
A*bor`ti*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. abortus (see Abort, v.) + faciens, p.
pr. of facere to make.]

Defn: Producing miscarriage.
 -- n.

Defn: A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.

ABORTION
A*bor"tion, n. Etym: [L. abortio, fr. aboriri. See Abort.]

1. The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of
the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining
life; miscarriage.

Note: It is sometimes used for the offense of procuring a premature
delivery, but strictly the early delivery is the abortion, "causing
or procuring abortion" is the full name of the offense. Abbott.

2. The immature product of an untimely birth.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an
imperfect formation or is absorbed.

4. Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything
which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete
failure; as, his attempt. proved an abortiori.

ABORTIONAL
A*bor"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle.

ABORTIONIST
A*bor"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who procures abortion or miscarriage.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, a. Etym: [L. abortivus, fr. aboriri. See Abort, v.]

1. Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
[R.]

2. Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.
[Obs.]

3. Rendering fruitless or ineffectual. [Obs.] "Plunged in that
abortive gulf." Milton.

4. Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless;
unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt. "An abortive enterprise."
Prescott.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an
abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.

6. (Med.)
(a) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines. Parr.
(b) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, n.

1. That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
[Obs.] Shak.

2. A fruitless effort or issue. [Obs.]

3. A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing
abortion. Dunglison.

ABORTIVELY
A*bor"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.

ABORTIVENESS
A*bor"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abortive.

ABORTMENT
A*bort"ment, n.

Defn: Abortion. [Obs.]

ABOUGHT
A*bought", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Aby. [Obs.]

ABOUND
A*bound", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abounding.]
Etym: [OE. abounden, F. abonder, fr. L. abundare to overflow, abound;
ab + unda wave. Cf. Undulate.]

1. To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
The wild boar which abounds in some parts of the continent of Europe.
Chambers.
Where sin abounded grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20.

2. To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with. To abound in,
to posses in such abundance as to be characterized by.
 -- To abound with, to be filled with; to possess in great numbers.
Men abounding in natural courage. Macaulay.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings. Prov. xxviii. 20.
It abounds with cabinets of curiosities. Addison.

ABOUT
A*bout", prep. Etym: [OE. aboute, abouten, abuten; AS. abutan,
onbutan; on + butan, which is from be by + utan outward, from ut out.
See But, Out.]

1. Around; all round; on every side of. "Look about you." Shak. "Bind
them about thy neck." Prov. iii. 3.

2. In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to;
near, as to place; by or on (one's person). "Have you much money
about you" Bulwer.

3. Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various
directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
Lampoons . . . were handed about the coffeehouses. Macaulay.
Roving still about the world. Milton.

4. Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size,
quantity. "To-morrow, about this time." Exod. ix. 18. "About my
stature." Shak.
He went out about the third hour. Matt. xx. 3.

Note: This use passes into the adverbial sense.

5. In concern with; engaged in; intent on.
I must be about my Father's business. Luke ii. 49.

6. Before a verbal noun or an infinitive:

Defn: On the point or verge of; going; in act of.
Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.

7. Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching. "To treat
about thy ransom." Milton.
She must have her way about Sarah. Trollope.

ABOUT
A*bout", adv.

1. On all sides; around.
'Tis time to look about. Shak.

2. In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside;
as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.

3. Here and there; around; in one place and another.
Wandering about from house to house. 1 Tim. v. 13.

4. Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality,
manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of
quantity, number, time. "There fell . . . about three thousand men."
Exod. xxii. 28.

5. To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on
the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about. To
bring about, to cause to take place; to accomplish.
 -- To come about, to occur; to take place. See under Come.
 -- To go about, To set about, to undertake; to arrange; to prepare.
"Shall we set about some revels Shak.
 -- Round about, in every direction around.

ABOUT-SLEDGE
A*bout"-sledge", n.

Defn: The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale.

ABOVE
A*bove", prep. Etym: [OE. above, aboven, abuffe, AS. abufon; an (or
on) on + be by + ufan upward; cf. Goth. uf under. *199. See Over.]

1. In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper
surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Fowl that may fly above the earth. Gen. i. 20.

2. Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing;
beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above
comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach. "Thy worth
. . . is actions above my gifts." Marlowe.
I saw in the way a light from heaven above the brightness of the sun.
Acts xxxvi. 13.

3. Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred.
(Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.) above all,
before every other consideration; chiefly; in preference to other
things. Over and above, prep. or adv., besides; in addition to.

ABOVE
A*bove", adv.

1. In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds
above.

2. Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing
page. "That was said above." Dryden.

3. Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.

4. More than; as, above five hundred were present.

Note: Above is often used elliptically as an adjective by omitting
the word mentioned, quoted, or the like; as, the above observations,
the above reference, the above articles.
 -- Above is also used substantively. "The waters that come down from
above." Josh. iii. 13. It is also used as the first part of a
compound in the sense of before, previously; as, above-cited, above-
described, above-mentioned, above-named, abovesaid, abovespecified,
above-written, above-given.

ABOVEBOARD
A*bove"board`, adv.

Defn: Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick,
concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke.

Note: This expression is said by Johnson to have been borrowed from
gamesters, who, when they change their cards, put their hands under
the table.

ABOVE-CITED
A*bove"-cit`ed, a.

Defn: Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.

ABOVEDECK
A*bove"deck`, a.

Defn: On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.

ABOVE-MENTIONED; ABOVE-NAMED
A*bove"-men`tioned, A*bove"-named`(#), a.

Defn: Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.

ABOVESAID
A*bove"said`, a.

Defn: Mentioned or recited before.

ABOX
A*box", adv. & a. (Naut.)

Defn: Braced aback.

ABRA
A"bra, n. [Sp., a bay, valley, fissure.]

Defn: A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a
cañon. [Southwestern U. S.]

ABRACADABRA
Ab`ra*ca*dab"ra, n. Etym: [L. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the
figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At
present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without
meaning; jargon.

ABRADANT
Ab*ra"dant, n.

Defn: A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass,
etc.

ABRADE
Ab*rade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abraded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abrading.]
Etym: [L. abradere, abrasum, to scrape off; ab + radere to scrape.
See Rase, Raze.]

Defn: To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to
abrade rocks. Lyell.

ABRADE
A*brade", v. t.

Defn: Same as Abraid. [Obs.]

ABRAHAMIC
A`bra*ham"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic
covenant.

ABRAHAMITIC; ABRAHAMITICAL
A`bra*ham*it"ic, A`bra*ham*it*ic*al(#), a.

Defn: Relating to the patriarch Abraham.

ABRAHAM-MAN; ABRAM-MAN
A"bra*ham-man`(#) or A"bram-man`(#), n. Etym: [Possibly in allusion
to the parable of the beggar Lazarus in Luke xvi. Murray (New Eng.
Dict. ).]

Defn: One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England,
feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms. Nares. To sham
Abraham, to feign sickness. Goldsmith.

ABRAID
A*braid", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. abraiden, to awake, draw (a sword),
AS. abredgan to shake, draw; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bregdan to shake, throw. See Braid.]

Defn: To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABRANCHIAL
A*bran"chi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Abranchiate.

ABRANCHIATA
A*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it
have no special organs of respiration.

ABRANCHIATE
A*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without gills.

ABRASE
Ab*rase", a. Etym: [L. abrasus, p. p. of abradere. See Abrade.]

Defn: Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson.

ABRASION
Ab*ra"sion, n. Etym: [L. abrasio, fr. abradere. See Abrade.]

1. The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by
friction; as, the abrasion of coins.

2. The substance rubbed off. Berkeley.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the
form of small shreds. Dunglison.

ABRASIVE
Ab*ra"sive, a.

Defn: Producing abrasion. Ure.

ABRAUM; ABRAUM SALTS
A*braum" or A*braum" salts, n. Etym: [Ger., fr. abräumen to remove.]

Defn: A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of
potassium.

ABRAXAS
A*brax"as, n. Etym: [A name adopted by the Egyptian Gnostic
Basilides, containing the Greek letters , , , , , , , which, as
numerals, amounted to 365. It was used to signify the supreme deity
as ruler of the 365 heavens of his system.]

Defn: A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the
ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.

ABRAY
A*bray", v. Etym: [A false form from the preterit abraid, abrayde.]

Defn: See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser.

ABREACTION
Ab`re*ac"tion, n. [Pref. ab-+ reaction, after G. Abreagirung.]
(Psychotherapy)

Defn: See Catharsis, below.

ABREAST
A*breast", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + breast.]

1. Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, "Two men could hardly
walk abreast." Macaulay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the
vessel's beam; -- with of.

3. Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep
abreast of [or with] the present state of science.

4. At the same time; simultaneously. [Obs.]
Abreast therewith began a convocation. Fuller.

ABREGGE
A*breg"ge, v. t.

Defn: See Abridge. [Obs.]

ABRENOUNCE
Ab`re*nounce", v. t. Etym: [L. abrenuntiare; ab + renuntiare. See
Renounce.]

Defn: To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."
Latimer.

ABRENUNCIATION
Ab`re*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abrenuntiatio. See Abrenounce.]

Defn: Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.]
An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, and
still believed. Fuller.

ABREPTION
Ab*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. abreptus, p. p. of abripere to snatch away;
ab + rapere to snatch.]

Defn: A snatching away. [Obs.]

ABREUVOIR
A`breu`voir", n. Etym: [F., a watering place.] (Masonry)

Defn: The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with
mortar. Gwilt.

ABRICOCK
A"bri*cock, n.

Defn: See Apricot. [Obs.]

ABRIDGE
A*bridge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abridged; p. pr. & vb. n. Abridging.]
Etym: [OE. abregen, OF. abregier, F. abréger, fr. L. abbreviare; ad +
brevis short. See Brief and cf. Abbreviate.]

1. To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish;
to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights. "The
bridegroom . . . abridged his visit." Smollett.
She retired herself to Sebaste, and abridged her train from state to
necessity. Fuller.

2. To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the
sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or
dictionary.

3. To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from;
as, to abridge one of his rights.

ABRIDGER
A*bridg"er, n.

Defn: One who abridges.

ABRIDGMENT
A*bridg"ment, n. Etym: [OE. abregement. See Abridge.]

1. The act abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution;
lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures
or of expenses.

2. An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form;
an abbreviation.
Ancient coins as abridgments of history. Addison.

3. That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that
makes the time pass quickly. [Obs.]
What abridgment have you for this evening What mask What music Shak.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment, Compendium, Epitome, Abstract, Synopsis. An
abridgment is made by omitting the less important parts of some
larger work; as, an abridgment of a dictionary. A compendium is a
brief exhibition of a subject, or science, for common use; as, a
compendium of American literature. An epitome corresponds to a
compendium, and gives briefly the most material points of a subject;
as, an epitome of history. An abstract is a brief statement of a
thing in its main points. A synopsis is a bird's-eye view of a
subject, or work, in its several parts.

ABROACH
A*broach", v. t. Etym: [OE. abrochen, OF. abrochier. See Broach.]

Defn: To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABROACH
A*broach", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broach.]

1. Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a
cask which is tapped.
Hogsheads of ale were set abroach. Sir W. Scott.

2. Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.
"Mischiefs that I set abroach." Shak.

ABROAD
A*broad", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broad.]

1. At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads
its branches abroad.
The fox roams far abroad. Prior.

2. Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's
abode; as, to walk abroad.
I went to St. James', where another was preaching in the court
abroad. Evelyn.

3. Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have
broils at home and enemies abroad. "Another prince . . . was living
abroad." Macaulay.

4. Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here
and there; widely.
He went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the
matter. Mark i. 45.
To be abroad. (a) To be wide of the mark; to be at fault; as, you are
all abroad in your guess. (b) To be at a loss or nonplused.

ABROGABLE
Ab"ro*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abrogated.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, a. Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p.]

Defn: Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abrogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abrogating.] Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p. of abrogare; ab + rogare to
ask, require, propose. See Rogation.]

1. To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of
the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of
laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.
Let us see whether the New Testament abrogates what we so frequently
see in the Old. South.
Whose laws, like those of the Medes and Persian, they can not alter
or abrogate. Burke.

2. To put an end to; to do away with. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; annul; do away; set aside; revoke; repeal; cancel;
annihilate. See Abolish.

ABROGATION
Ab`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abrogatio, fr. abrogare: cf. F.
abrogation.]

Defn: The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume.

ABROGATIVE
Ab"ro*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.

ABROGATOR
Ab"ro*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who repeals by authority.

ABROOD
A*brood", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + brood.]

Defn: In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.

ABROOK
A*brook", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + brook, v.]

Defn: To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", a. Etym: [L. abruptus, p. p. of abrumpere to break off; ab
+ rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks;
precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places. "Tumbling through ricks
abrupt," Thomson.

2. Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty;
unceremonious. "The cause of your abrupt departure." Shak.

3. Having sudden transitions from one subject to another;
unconnected.
The abrupt style, which hath many breaches. B. Jonson.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.

Syn.
 -- Sudden; unexpected; hasty; rough; curt; unceremonious; rugged;
blunt; disconnected; broken.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", n. Etym: [L. abruptum.]

Defn: An abrupt place. [Poetic]
"Over the vast abrupt." Milton.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", v. t.

Defn: To tear off or asunder. [Obs.] "Till death abrupts them." Sir
T. Browne.

ABRUPTION
Ab*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. abruptio, fr. abrumpere: cf. F. abruption.]

Defn: A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
Woodward.

ABRUPTLY
Ab*rupt"ly, adv.

1. In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual
forms; suddenly.

2. Precipitously. Abruptly pinnate (Bot.), pinnate without an odd
leaflet, or other appendage, at the end. Gray.

ABRUPTNESS
Ab*rupt"ness, n.

1. The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness;
steepness.

2. Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of
style or manner.

ABSCESS
Ab"scess, n.; pl. Abscesses. Etym: [L. abscessus a going away,
gathering of humors, abscess, fr. abscessus, p. p. of absedere to go
away; ab, abs + cedere to go off, retire. See Cede.] (Med.)

Defn: A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ
of the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscess
of slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristic
of ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting any
tendency towards healing; a chronic abscess.

ABSCESSION
Ab*sces"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscessio a separation; fr. absedere. See
Abscess.]

Defn: A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden.
Barrough.

ABSCIND
Ab*scind", v. t. Etym: [L. absindere; ab + scindere to rend, cut. See
Schism.]

Defn: To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest."
Johnson.

ABSCISION
Ab*sci"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscisio.]

Defn: See Abscission.

ABSCISS
Ab"sciss, n.; pl. Abscisses.

Defn: See Abscissa.

ABSCISSA
Ab*scis"sa, n.; E. pl. Abscissas, L. pl. Abscissæ. Etym: [L., fem. of
abscissus, p. p. of absindere to cut of. See Abscind.] (Geom.)

Defn: One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a
curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.

Note: When referred to two intersecting axes, one of them called the
axis of abscissas, or of X, and the other the axis of ordinates, or
of Y, the abscissa of the point is the distance cut off from the axis
of X by a line drawn through it and parallel to the axis of Y. When a
point in space is referred to three axes having a common
intersection, the abscissa may be the distance measured parallel to
either of them, from the point to the plane of the other two axes.
Abscissas and ordinates taken together are called coördinates.
 -- OX or PY is the abscissa of the point P of the curve, OY or PX
its ordinate, the intersecting lines OX and OY being the axes of
abscissas and ordinates respectively, and the point O their origin.

ABSCISSION
Ab*scis"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscissio. See Abscind.]

1. The act or process of cutting off. "Not to be cured without the
abscission of a member." Jer. Taylor.

2. The state of being cut off. Sir T. Browne.

3. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say
a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and
candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Absconded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absconding.] Etym: [L. abscondere to hide; ab, abs + condere to lay
up; con + dare (only in comp.) to put. Cf. Do.]

1. To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
The marmot absconds all winter. Ray.

2. To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; --
used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as,
an absconding debtor.
That very homesickness which, in regular armies, drives so many
recruits to abscond. Macaulay.

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. t.

Defn: To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley.

ABSCONDENCE
Ab*scond"ence, n.

Defn: Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips.

ABSCONDER
Ab*scond"er, n.

Defn: One who absconds.

ABSENCE
Ab"sence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. absentia. See Absent.]

1. A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from
companionship; -- opposed to presence.
Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Phil.
ii. 12.

2. Want; destitution; withdrawal. "In the absence of conventional
law." Kent.

3. Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence
of mind. "Reflecting on the little absences and distractions of
mankind." Addison.
To conquer that abstraction which is called absence. Landor.

ABSENT
Ab"sent, a. Etym: [F., fr. absens, absentis, p. pr. of abesse to be
away from; ab + esse to be. Cf. Sooth.]

1. Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
"Expecting absent friends." Shak.

2. Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.

3. Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an
absent air.
What is commonly called an absent man is commonly either a very weak
or a very affected man. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- Absent, Abstracted. These words both imply a want of attention to
surrounding objects. We speak of a man as absent when his thoughts
wander unconsciously from present scenes or topics of discourse; we
speak of him as abstracted when his mind (usually for a brief period)
is drawn off from present things by some weighty matter for
reflection. Absence of mind is usually the result of loose habits of
thought; abstraction commonly arises either from engrossing interests
and cares, or from unfortunate habits of association.

ABSENT
Ab*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absented; p. pr. & vb. n. Absenting.]
Etym: [Cf. F. absenter.]

1. To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent
intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.
If after due summons any member absents himself, he is to be fined.
Addison.

2. To withhold from being present. [Obs.] "Go; for thy stay, not
free, absents thee more." Milton.

ABSENTANEOUS
Ab`sen*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [LL. absentaneus. See absent]

Defn: Pertaining to absence. [Obs.]

ABSENTATION
Ab`sen*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.

ABSENTEE
Ab`sen*tee", n.

Defn: One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or
duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or
district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish
absentee. Macaulay.

ABSENTEEISM
Ab`sen*tee"ism, n.

Defn: The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of
absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate
is situated.

ABSENTER
Ab*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who absents one's self.

ABSENTLY
Ab"sent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absent or abstracted manner.

ABSENTMENT
Ab*sent"ment, n.

Defn: The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.

ABSENT-MINDED
Ab`sent-mind"ed(#), a.

Defn: Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv.

ABSENTNESS
Ab"sent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.

ABSEY-BOOK
Ab"sey-book`(#), n.

Defn: An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak.

ABSINTHATE
Ab"sin"thate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive
radical.

ABSINTHE; ABSINTH
Ab"sinthe`, Ab"sinth`, n. Etym: [F. absinthe. See Absinthium.]

1. The plant absinthium or common wormwood.

2. A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or
alcohol.

ABSINTHIAL
Ab*sin"thi*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.

ABSINTHIAN
Ab*sin"thi*an, n.

Defn: Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.
Randolph.

ABSINTHIATE
Ab"sin"thi*ate, v. t. Etym: [From L. absinthium: cf. L. absinthiatus,
a.]

Defn: To impregnate with wormwood.

ABSINTHIATED
Ab*sin"thi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.

ABSINTHIC
Ab*sin"thic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.

ABSINTHIN
Ab*sin"thin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts.

ABSINTHISM
Ab"sin*thism, n.

Defn: The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of
absinth.

ABSINTHIUM
Ab*sin"thi*um, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter
plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.

ABSIS
Ab"sis, n.

Defn: See Apsis.

ABSIST
Ab*sist", v. i. Etym: [L. absistere, p. pr. absistens; ab + sistere
to stand, causal of stare.]

Defn: To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh.

ABSISTENCE
Ab*sist"ence, n.

Defn: A standing aloof. [Obs.]

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, a. Etym: [L. absolutus, p. p. of absolvere: cf. F.
absolu. See Absolve.]

1. Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled;
unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy,
sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an
absolute monarch.

2. Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute
perfection; absolute beauty.
So absolute she seems, And in herself complete. Milton.

3. Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with
other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative;
as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.

Note: Absolute rights and duties are such as pertain to man in a
state of nature as contradistinguished from relative rights and
duties, or such as pertain to him in his social relations.

4. Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being;
self-existent; self-sufficing.

Note: In this sense God is called the Absolute by the Theist. The
term is also applied by the Pantheist to the universe, or the total
of all existence, as only capable of relations in its parts to each
other and to the whole, and as dependent for its existence and its
phenomena on its mutually depending forces and their laws.

5. Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone;
unconditioned; non-relative.

Note: It is in dispute among philosopher whether the term, in this
sense, is not applied to a mere logical fiction or abstraction, or
whether the absolute, as thus defined, can be known, as a reality, by
the human intellect.
To Cusa we can indeed articulately trace, word and thing, the recent
philosophy of the absolute. Sir W. Hamilton.

6. Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful. [R.]
I am absolute 't was very Cloten. Shak.

7. Authoritative; peremptory. [R.]
The peddler stopped, and tapped her on the head, With absolute
forefinger, brown and ringed. Mrs. Browning.

8. (Chem.)

Defn: Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.

9. (Gram.)

Defn: Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in
government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under
Ablative. Absolute curvature (Geom.), that curvature of a curve of
double curvature, which is measured in the osculating plane of the
curve.
 -- Absolute equation (Astron.), the sum of the optic and eccentric
equations.
 -- Absolute space (Physics), space considered without relation to
material limits or objects.
 -- Absolute terms. (Alg.), such as are known, or which do not
contain the unknown quantity. Davies & Peck.
 -- Absolute temperature (Physics), the temperature as measured on a
scale determined by certain general thermo-dynamic principles, and
reckoned from the absolute zero.
 -- Absolute zero (Physics), the be ginning, or zero point, in the
scale of absolute temperature. It is equivalent to -273º centigrade
or -459.4º Fahrenheit.

Syn.
 -- Positive; peremptory; certain; unconditional; unlimited;
unrestricted; unqualified; arbitrary; despotic; autocratic.

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, n. (Geom.)

Defn: In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in
space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.

ABSOLUTELY
Ab"so*lute*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly;
positively.

ABSOLUTENESS
Ab"so*lute*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absolute; independence of everything
extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;
positiveness.

ABSOLUTION
Ab`so*lu"tion, n. Etym: [F. absolution, L. absolutio, fr. absolvere
to absolve. See Absolve.]

1. An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty;
forgiveness of an offense. "Government . . . granting absolution to
the nation." Froude.

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused
person innocent. [Obs.]

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of
penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent
are forgiven.

Note: In the English and other Protestant churches, this act regarded
as simply declaratory, not as imparting forgiveness.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example,
excommunication. P. Cyc.

5. The form of words by which a penitent is absolved. Shipley.

6. Delivery, in speech. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Absolution day (R. C. Ch.),
Tuesday before Easter.

ABSOLUTISM
Ab"so*lu`tism, n.

1. The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the
absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary
government; despotism.
The element of absolutism and prelacy was controlling. Palfrey.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, n.

1. One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or
concept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as,
absolutist principles.

ABSOLUTISTIC
Ab`so*lu*tis"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.

ABSOLUTORY
Ab*sol"u*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. absolutorius, fr. absolvere to absolve.]

Defn: Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence."
Ayliffe.

ABSOLVABLE
Ab*solv"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be absolved.

ABSOLVATORY
Ab*solv"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Conferring absolution; absolutory.

ABSOLVE
Ab*solve" (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absolving.] Etym: [L. absolvere to set free, to absolve; ab + solvere
to loose. See Assoil, Solve.]

1. To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or
responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it
would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a
subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to
an acquittal and remission of his punishment.
Halifax was absolved by a majority of fourteen. Macaulay.

2. To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of
the sin or guilt.
In his name I absolve your perjury. Gibbon.

3. To finish; to accomplish. [Obs.]
The work begun, how soon absolved. Milton.

4. To resolve or explain. [Obs.] "We shall not absolve the doubt."
Sir T. Browne.

Syn.
 -- To Absolve, Exonerate, Acquit. We speak of a man as absolved from
something that binds his conscience, or involves the charge of
wrongdoing; as, to absolve from allegiance or from the obligation of
an oath, or a promise. We speak of a person as exonerated, when he is
released from some burden which had rested upon him; as, to exonerate
from suspicion, to exonerate from blame or odium. It implies a purely
moral acquittal. We speak of a person as acquitted, when a decision
has been made in his favor with reference to a specific charge,
either by a jury or by disinterested persons; as, he was acquitted of
all participation in the crime.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, a. Etym: [L. absolvens, p. pr. of absolvere.]

Defn: Absolving. [R.] Carlyle.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, n.

Defn: An absolver. [R.] Hobbes.

ABSOLVER
Ab*solv"er, n.

Defn: One who absolves. Macaulay.

ABSONANT
Ab"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. ab + sonans, p. pr. of sonare to sound.]

Defn: Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant to
nature." Quarles.

ABSONOUS
Ab"so*nous, a. Etym: [L. absonus; ab + sonus sound.]

Defn: Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to our
reason." Glanvill.

ABSORB
Ab*sorb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absorbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Absorbing.]
Etym: [L. absorbere; ab + sorbere to suck in, akin to Gr. absorber.]

1. To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as
if by swallowing up; to use up; to include. "Dark oblivion soon
absorbs them all." Cowper.
The large cities absorb the wealth and fashion. W. Irving.

2. To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals
of the body. Bacon.

3. To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in
study or the pursuit of wealth.

4. To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when
charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed
or taken up in the substances into which they pass. Nichol. p. 8

Syn.
 -- To Absorb, Engross, Swallow up, Engulf. These words agree in one
general idea, that of completely taking up. They are chiefly used in
a figurative sense and may be distinguished by a reference to their
etymology. We speak of a person as absorbed (lit., drawn in,
swallowed up) in study or some other employment of the highest
interest. We speak of a person as ebgrossed (lit., seized upon in the
gross, or wholly) by something which occupies his whole time and
thoughts, as the acquisition of wealth, or the attainment of honor.
We speak of a person (under a stronger image) as swallowed up and
lost in that which completely occupies his thoughts and feelings, as
in grief at the death of a friend, or in the multiplied cares of
life. We speak of a person as engulfed in that which (like a gulf)
takes in all his hopes and interests; as, engulfed in misery, ruin,
etc.
That grave question which had begun to absorb the Christian mind --
the marriage of the clergy. Milman.
Too long hath love engrossed Britannia's stage, And sunk to softness
all our tragic rage. Tickell.
Should not the sad occasion swallow up My other cares Addison.
And in destruction's river Engulf and swallow those. Sir P. Sidney.

ABSORBABILITY
Ab*sorb`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry).

ABSORBABLE
Ab*sorb"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. absorbable.]

Defn: Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr.

ABSORBEDLY
Ab*sorb"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.

ABSORBENCY
Ab*sorb"en*cy, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, a. Etym: [L. absorbens, p. pr. of absorbere.]

Defn: Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), a
ground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or water
colors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted to
the colors.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, n.

1. Anything which absorbs.
The ocean, itself a bad absorbent of heat. Darwin.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the
stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g.,
iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged
and indurated parts.

3. pl. (Physiol.)

Defn: The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried
on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in
plants.

ABSORBER
Ab*sorb"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, absorbs.

ABSORBING
Ab*sorb"ing, a.

Defn: Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.
 -- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.

ABSORBITION
Ab`sor*bi"tion, n.

Defn: Absorption. [Obs.]

ABSORPT
Ab*sorpt`, a. Etym: [L. absorptus, p. p.]

Defn: Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope.

ABSORPTION
Ab*sorp"tion, n. Etym: [L. absorptio, fr. absorbere. See Absorb.]

1. The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of
being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in
a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.

2. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,
the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: In living organisms, the process by which the materials of
growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and
organs.

4. Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in
some employment.

ABSORPTIVE
Ab*sorp"tive, a.

Defn: Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.
Darwin.

ABSORPTIVENESS
Ab*sorp"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.

ABSORPTIVITY
Ab`sorp*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSQUATULATE
Ab*squat"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]

ABSQUE HOC
Abs"que hoc

Defn: . Etym: [L., without this.] (Law) The technical words of denial
used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abstained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstaining.] Etym: [OE. absteynen, abstenen, OF. astenir, abstenir,
F. abstenir, fr. L. abstinere, abstentum, v. t. & v. i., to keep
from; ab, abs + tenere to hold. See Tenable.]

Defn: To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily,
and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; --
with from.
Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay.
Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.

Syn.
 -- To refrain; forbear; withhold; deny one's self; give up;
relinquish.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. t.

Defn: To hinder; to withhold.
Whether he abstain men from marrying. Milton.

ABSTAINER
Ab*stain"er, n.

Defn: One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of
intoxicating liquors.

ABSTEMIOUS
Ab*ste"mi*ous, a. Etym: [L. abstemius; ab, abs + root of temetum
intoxicating drink.]

1. Abstaining from wine. [Orig. Latin sense.]
Under his special eye Abstemious I grew up and thrived amain. Milton.

2. Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong
drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the
appetite or passions.
Instances of longevity are chiefly among the abstemious. Arbuthnot.

3. Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an
abstemious diet. Gibbon.

4. Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life. "One
abstemious day." Pope.

5. Promotive of abstemiousness. [R.]
Such is the virtue of the abstemious well. Dryden.

ABSTEMIOUSNESS
Ab*ste"mi*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the
use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of
abstinence than temperance.

ABSTENTION
Ab*sten"tion, a. Etym: [F. See Abstain.]

Defn: The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor.

ABSTENTIOUS
Ab*sten"tious, a.

Defn: Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.

ABSTERGE
Ab*sterge, v. t. Etym: [L. abstergere, abstersum; ab, abs + tergere
to wipe. Cf. F absterger.]

Defn: To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to
purge. [R.] Quincy.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, a. Etym: [L. abstergens, p. pr. of abstergere.]

Defn: Serving to cleanse, detergent.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, n.

Defn: A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an
abstergent.

ABSTERSE
Ab*sterse", v. t.

Defn: To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSTERSION
Ab*ster"sion, n. Etym: [F. abstersion. See Absterge.]

Defn: Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstersif. See Absterge.]

Defn: Cleansing; purging. Bacon.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, n.

Defn: Something cleansing.
The strong abstersive of some heroic magistrate. Milton.

ABSTERSIVENESS
Ab*ster"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstersive. Fuller.

ABSTINENCE
Ab"sti*nence, n. Etym: [F. abstinence, L. abstinentia, fr. abstinere.
See Abstain.]

1. The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any
action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or
from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities.
Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages,
-- called also total abstinence.
The abstinence from a present pleasure that offers itself is a pain,
nay, oftentimes, a very great one. Locke.

2. The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain
kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.
Penance, fasts, and abstinence, To punish bodies for the soul's
offense. Dryden.

ABSTINENCY
Ab"sti*nen*cy, n.

Defn: Abstinence. [R.]

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, a. Etym: [F. abstinent, L. abstinens, p. pr. of
abstinere. See Abstain.]

Defn: Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of
appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl.

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, n.

1. One who abstains.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d
century.

ABSTINENTLY
Ab"sti*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abstinence.

ABSTORTED
Ab*stort"ed, a. Etym: [As if fr. abstort, fr. L. ab, abs + tortus, p.
p. of torquere to twist.]

Defn: Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract` (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. abstractus, p. p. of abstrahere to
draw from, separate; ab, abs + trahere to draw. See Trace.]

1. Withdraw; separate. [Obs.]
The more abstract . . . we are from the body. Norris.

2. Considered apart from any application to a particular object;
separated from matter; exiting in the mind only; as, abstract truth,
abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.

3. (Logic)
(a) Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from
the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to Ant:
concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word. J. S. Mill.
(b) Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as
opposed to particular; as, "reptile" is an abstract or general name.
Locke.
A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an abstract name
which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in
more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained
currency from his example, of applying the expression "abstract name"
to all names which are the result of abstraction and generalization,
and consequently to all general names, instead of confining it to the
names of attributes. J. S. Mill.

4. Abstracted; absent in mind. "Abstract, as in a trance." Milton. An
abstract idea (Metaph.), an idea separated from a complex object, or
from other ideas which naturally accompany it; as the solidity of
marble when contemplated apart from its color or figure.
 -- Abstract terms, those which express abstract ideas, as beauty,
whiteness, roundness, without regarding any object in which they
exist; or abstract terms are the names of orders, genera or species
of things, in which there is a combination of similar qualities.
 -- Abstract numbers (Math.), numbers used without application to
things, as 6, 8, 10; but when applied to any thing, as 6 feet, 10
men, they become concrete.
 -- Abstract or Pure mathematics. See Mathematics.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abstracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstracting.] Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. To withdraw; to separate; to take away.
He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution abstracted from
his own prejudices. Sir W. Scott.

2. To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was
wholly abstracted by other objects.
The young stranger had been abstracted and silent. Blackw. Mag.

3. To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider
by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.
Whately.

4. To epitomize; to abridge. Franklin.

5. To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods
from a parcel, or money from a till.
Von Rosen had quietly abstracted the bearing-reins from the harness.
W. Black.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a
substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense
extract is now more generally used.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t.

Defn: To perform the process of abstraction. [R.]
I own myself able to abstract in one sense. Berkeley.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract`, n. Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential
qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A
summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a
brief.
An abstract of every treatise he had read. Watts.
Man, the abstract Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven
hath modeled. Ford.

2. A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject
in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.

3. An abstract term.
The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts
"paternity" and "filiety." J. S. Mill.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with
sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract
represents two parts of the original substance. Abstract of title
(Law), an epitome of the evidences of ownership.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; synopsis. See Abridgment.

ABSTRACTED
Ab*stract"ed, a.

1. Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
The evil abstracted stood from his own evil. Milton.

2. Separated from matter; abstract; ideal. [Obs.]

3. Abstract; abstruse; difficult. [Obs.] Johnson.

4. Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind. "An abstracted
scholar." Johnson.

ABSTRACTEDLY
Ab*stract"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.

ABSTRACTEDNESS
Ab*stract"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abstracted; abstract character.

ABSTRACTER
Ab*stract"er, n.

Defn: One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.

ABSTRACTION
Ab*strac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abstraction. See Abstract, a.]

1. The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state
of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
A wrongful abstraction of wealth from certain members of the
community. J. S. Mill.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more
properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.
Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the
color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is
called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness,
virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.

Note: Abstraction is necessary to classification, by which things are
arranged in genera and species. We separate in idea the qualities of
certain objects, which are of the same kind, from others which are
different, in each, and arrange the objects having the same
properties in a class, or collected body.
Abstraction is no positive act: it is simply the negative of
attention. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to
fight for mere abstractions.

4. A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's
abstraction.

5. Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.

6. The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property
of another; purloining. [Modern]

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
Nicholson.

ABSTRACTIONAL
Ab*strac"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abstraction.

ABSTRACTIONIST
Ab*strac"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An idealist. Emerson.

ABSTRACTITIOUS
Ab`strac*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb.

ABSTRACTIVE
Ab*strac"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstractif.]

Defn: Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "The
abstractive faculty." I. Taylor.

ABSTRACTIVELY
Ab*strac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham.

ABSTRACTIVENESS
Ab*strac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.

ABSTRACTLY
Ab"stract`ly (#; 277), adv.

Defn: In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by
itself; as, matter abstractly considered.

ABSTRACTNESS
Ab"stract`ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas."
Locke.

ABSTRINGE
Ab*stringe", v. t. Etym: [L ab + stringere, strictum, to press
together.]

Defn: To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRUDE
Ab*strude", v. t. Etym: [L. abstrudere. See Abstruse.]

Defn: To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson.

ABSTRUSE
Ab*struse", a. Etym: [L. abstrusus, p. p. of abstrudere to thrust
away, conceal; ab, abs + trudere to thrust; cf. F. abstrus. See
Threat.]

1. Concealed or hidden out of the way. [Obs.]
The eternal eye whose sight discerns Abstrusest thoughts. Milton.

2. Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or
understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
Profound and abstruse topics. Milman.

ABSTRUSELY
Ab*struse"ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstruse manner.

ABSTRUSENESS
Ab*struse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Boyle.

ABSTRUSION
Ab*stru"sion, n. Etym: [L. abstrusio. See Abstruse.]

Defn: The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie.

ABSTRUSITY
Ab*stru"si*ty, n.

Defn: Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSUME
Ab*sume", v. t. Etym: [L. absumere, absumptum; ab + sumere to take.]

Defn: To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.

ABSUMPTION
Ab*sump"tion (#; 215), n. Etym: [L. absumptio. See Absume.]

Defn: Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", a. Etym: [L. absurdus harsh-sounding; ab + (prob) a
derivative fr. a root svar to sound; not connected with surd: cf. F.
absurde. See Syringe.]

Defn: Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed
to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common
sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an
absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.
This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak.
'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope.
p. 9

Syn.
 -- Foolish; irrational; ridiculous; preposterous; inconsistent;
incongruous.
 -- Absurd, Irrational, Foolish, Preposterous. Of these terms,
irrational is the weakest, denoting that which is plainly
inconsistent with the dictates of sound reason; as, an irrational
course of life. Foolish rises higher, and implies either a perversion
of that faculty, or an absolute weakness or fatuity of mind; as,
foolish enterprises. Absurd rises still higher, denoting that which
is plainly opposed to received notions of propriety and truth; as, an
absurd man, project, opinion, story, argument, etc. Preposterous
rises still higher, and supposes an absolute inversion in the order
of things; or, in plain terms, a "putting of the cart before the
horse;" as, a preposterous suggestion, preposterous conduct, a
preposterous regulation or law.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", n.

Defn: An absurdity. [Obs.] Pope.

ABSURDITY
Ab*surd"i*ty, n.; pl. Absurdities. Etym: [L. absurditas: cf. F.
absurdite.]

1. The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth,
reason, or sound judgment. "The absurdity of the actual idea of an
infinite number." Locke.

2. That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.
His travels were full of absurdities. Johnson.

ABSURDLY
Ab*surd"ly, adv.

Defn: In an absurd manner.

ABSURDNESS
Ab*surd"ness, n.

Defn: Absurdity. [R.]

ABUNA
A*bu"na, n. Etym: [Eth. and Ar., our father.]

Defn: The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.

ABUNDANCE
A*bun"dance, n. Etym: [OE. (h)abudaunce, abundance, F. abundance, F.
abondance, L. abundantia, fr. abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty;
profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly
applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
It is lamentable to remember what abundance of noble blood hath been
shed with small benefit to the Christian state. Raleigh.

Syn.
 -- Exuberance; plenteousness; plenty; copiousness; overflow; riches;
affluence; wealth.
 -- Abundance, Plenty, Exuberance. These words rise upon each other
in expressing the idea of fullness. Plenty denotes a sufficiency to
supply every want; as, plenty of food, plenty of money, etc.
Abundance express more, and gives the idea of superfluity or excess;
as, abundance of riches, an abundance of wit and humor; often,
however, it only denotes plenty in a high degree. Exuberance rises
still higher, and implies a bursting forth on every side, producing
great superfluity or redundance; as, an exuberance of mirth, an
exuberance of animal spirits, etc.

ABUNDANT
A*bun"dant, a. Etym: [OE. (h)abundant, aboundant, F. abondant, fr. L.
abudans, p. pr. of abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by
in, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6.
Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot parts
exceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of
12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to a
perfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.

Syn.
 -- Ample; plentiful; copious; plenteous; exuberant; overflowing;
rich; teeming; profuse; bountiful; liberal. See Ample.

ABUNDANTLY
A*bun"dant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large
measure.

ABURST
A*burst", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + burst.]

Defn: In a bursting condition.

ABUSABLE
A*bus"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be abused.

ABUSAGE
A*bus"age, n.

Defn: Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634).

ABUSE
A*buse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abused; p. pr. & vb. n. Abusing.] Etym:
[F. abuser; L. abusus, p. p. of abuti to abuse, misuse; ab + uti to
use. See Use.]

1. To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad
use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse
inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's
authority.
This principle (if one may so abuse the word) shoots rapidly into
popularity. Froude.

2. To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to
tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's
powers, one's patience.

3. To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.
The . . . tellers of news abused the general. Macaulay.

4. To dishonor. "Shall flight abuse your name" Shak.

5. To violate; to ravish. Spenser.

6. To deceive; to impose on. [Obs.]
Their eyes red and staring, cozened with a moist cloud, and abused by
a double object. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To maltreat; injure; revile; reproach; vilify; vituperate;
asperse; traduce; malign.

ABUSE
A*buse", n. Etym: [F. abus, L. abusus, fr. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

1. Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose;
misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights,
or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.
Liberty may be endangered by the abuses of liberty, as well as by the
abuses of power. Madison.

2. Physical ill treatment; injury. "Rejoice . . . at the abuse of
Falstaff." Shak.

3. A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the
abuses in the civil service.
Abuse after disappeared without a struggle.. Macaulay.

4. Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language;
virulent condemnation; reviling.
The two parties, after exchanging a good deal of abuse, came to
blows. Macaulay.

5. Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child. [Obs.]
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing Shak.
Abuse of distress (Law), a wrongful using of an animal or chattel
distrained, by the distrainer.

Syn.
 -- Invective; contumely; reproach; scurrility; insult; opprobrium.
 -- Abuse, Invective. Abuse is generally prompted by anger, and
vented in harsh and unseemly words. It is more personal and coarse
than invective. Abuse generally takes place in private quarrels;
invective in writing or public discussions. Invective may be conveyed
in refined language and dictated by indignation against what is
blameworthy. C. J. Smith.

ABUSEFUL
A*buse"ful, a.

Defn: Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow.

ABUSER
A*bus"er, n.

Defn: One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].

ABUSION
A*bu"sion, n. Etym: [OE. abusion, abusioun, OF. abusion, fr. L.
abusio misuse of words, f. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

Defn: Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;
cheat. Chaucer.

ABUSIVE
A*bu"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abusif, fr. L. abusivus.]

1. Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
I am . . . necessitated to use the word Parliament improperly,
according to the abusive acceptation thereof. Fuller.

2. Given to misusing; also, full of abuses. [Archaic] "The abusive
prerogatives of his see." Hallam.

3. Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or
by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.

4. Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse;
vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous. "An abusive lampoon." Johnson.

5. Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating. [Obs.] "An abusive
treaty." Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Reproachful; scurrilous; opprobrious; insolent; insulting;
injurious; offensive; reviling.

ABUSIVELY
A*bu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.

ABUSIVENESS
A*bu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence
to the person.
Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness,
filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert.

ABUT
A*but", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Abutting.] Etym:
[OF. abouter, aboter; cf. F. aboutir, and also abuter; a (L. ad) +
OF. boter, buter, to push: cf. F. bout end, and but end, purpose.]

Defn: To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet;
-- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.

ABUTILON
A*bu"ti*lon, n. Etym: [Ar. aubutilun.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the
torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian
mallow.

ABUTMENT
A*but"ment, n.

1. State of abutting.

2. That on or against which a body abuts or presses; as
(a) (Arch.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives
the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut. Gwilt.
(b) (mech.) A fixed point or surface from which resistance or
reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the
fulcrum of a lever, etc.
(c) In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which
receives the pressure due to recoil.

ABUTTAL
A*but"tal, n.

Defn: The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a
headland. Spelman.

ABUTTER
A*but"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a
contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.

ABUZZ
A*buzz", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + buzz.]

Defn: In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.

ABY; ABYE
A*by", A*bye", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Abought.] Etym: [AS. abycgan
to pay for; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) +
bycgan to buy. See Buy, and cf. Abide.]

1. To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to
give satisfaction. [Obs.]
Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Shak.

2. To endure; to abide. [Obs.]
But nought that wanteth rest can long aby. Spenser.

ABYSM
A*bysm", n. Etym: [OF. abisme; F. abime, LL. abyssimus, a superl. of
L. abyssus; Gr. Abyss.]

Defn: An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak.

ABYSMAL
A*bys"mal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;
profound.
Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy does
of space. Carlyle.

ABYSMALLY
A*bys"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.
Eliot.

ABYSS
A*byss", n. Etym: [L. abyssus a bottomless gulf, fr. Gr.

1. A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep,
immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
Ye powers and spirits of this nethermost abyss. Milton.
The throne is darkness, in the abyss of light. Dryden.

2. Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.
The abysses of metaphysical theology. Macaulay.
In unfathomable abysses of disgrace. Burke.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The center of an escutcheon.

Note: This word, in its leading uses, is associated with the
cosmological notions of the Hebrews, having reference to a supposed
illimitable mass of waters from which our earth sprung, and beneath
whose profound depths the wicked were punished. Encyc. Brit.

ABYSSAL
A*byss"al, a. Etym: [Cf. Abysmal.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssal
zone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.
Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,
animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing all
beyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of
90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, n.

1. A native of Abyssinia.

2. A member of the Abyssinian Church.

ACACIA
A*ca"ci*a, n. (Antiq.)

Defn: A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors,
as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.

ACACIA
A*ca"cia, n.; pl. E. Acacias, L. Acaciæ. Etym: [L. from Gr. ak to be
sharp. See Acute.]

1. A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are
Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed
leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer
species of America, Africa, etc. Very few are found in temperate
climates.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called
also gum acacia, and gum arabic.

ACACIN; ACACINE
Ac"a*cin, Ac"a*cine, n.

Defn: Gum arabic.

ACADEME
Ac`a*deme", n. Etym: [L. academia. See Academy.]

Defn: An academy. [Poetic] Shak.

ACADEMIAL
Ac`a*de"mi*al, a.

Defn: Academic. [R.]

ACADEMIAN
Ac`a*de"mi*an, n.

Defn: A member of an academy, university, or college.

ACADEMIC
Ac`a*dem"ic, n.

1. One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.
Hume.

2. A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.

ACADEMIC; ACADEMICAL
Ac`a*dem"ic, Ac`a*dem"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. academicus: cf. F.
académigue. See Academy.]

1. Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic
sect or philosophy.

2. Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning;
scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
"Academic courses." Warburton. "Academical study." Berkeley.

ACADEMICALLY
Ac`a*dem`ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an academical manner.

ACADEMICALS
Ac`a*dem"ic*als, n. pl.

Defn: The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and
universities.

ACADEMICIAN
Ac`a*de*mi"cian (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. académicien. See Academy.]

1. A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or
literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.

2. A collegian. [R.] Chesterfield.

ACADEMICISM
Ac`a*dem"i*cism, n.

1. A tenet of the Academic philosophy.

2. A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.

ACADEMISM
A*cad"e*mism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter.

ACADEMIST
A*cad"e*mist, n. Etym: [F. academiste.]

1. An Academic philosopher.

2. An academician. [Obs.] Ray.

ACADEMY
A*cad"e*my, n.; pl. Academies. Etym: [F. académie, L. academia. Cf.
Academe.]

1. A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus),
where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences;
hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.

2. An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a
university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a
rank between a college and a common school.

3. A place of training; a school. "Academies of fanaticism." Hume.

4. A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts
and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as,
the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences;
academies of literature and philology.

5. A school or place of training in which some special art is taught;
as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy
of Music. Academy figure (Paint.), a drawing usually half life-size,
in crayon or pencil, after a nude model.

ACADIAN
A*ca"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers."
Longfellow.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Acadie. Acadian epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the
beginning of the American paleozoic time, and including the oldest
American rocks known to be fossiliferous. See Geology.
 -- Acadian owl (Zoöl.), a small North American owl (Nyctule
Acadica); the saw-whet.

ACAJOU
Ac"a*jou, n. Etym: [F. See Cashew.] (Bot.)
(a) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
(b) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.

ACALEPH; ACALEPHAN
Ac"a*leph, Ac`a*le"phan n.; pl. Acalephs, Acalephans. Etym: [See
Acalephæ.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Acalephæ.

ACALEPHAE
Ac`a*le"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes,
and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.
Sometimes called sea nettles.

ACALEPHOID
Ac`ale"phoid, a. Etym: [Acaleph + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.

ACALYCINE; ACALYSINOUS
A*cal"y*cine, Ac`a*lys`i*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.

ACANTH
A*canth", n.

Defn: Same as Acanthus.

ACANTHA
A*can"tha, n. Etym: [Gr. Acute.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spine or prickly fin.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.
Dunglison.

ACANTHACEOUS
Ac"an*tha"ceous, a.

1. Armed with prickles, as a plant.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the acanthus is the type.

ACANTHINE
A*can"thine, a. Etym: [L. acanthinus, Gr. Acanthus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.

ACANTHOCARPOUS
A*can`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the fruit covered with spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALA
A*can`tho*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with
recurved spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALOUS
A*can`tho*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.

ACANTHOPHOROUS
Ac`an*thoph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Spine-bearing. Gray.

ACANTHOPODIOUS
A*can`tho*po"di*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having spinous petioles.

ACANTHOPTERI
Ac`an*thop"ter*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See
Acanthopterygii.

ACANTHOPTEROUS
Ac`an*thop"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Spiny-winged.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Acanthopterygious.

ACANTHOPTERYGIAN
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the
perch.
 -- n.

Defn: A spiny-finned fish.

ACANTHOPTERYGII
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal,
ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.

ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-
finned.

ACANTHUS
A*can"thus, n.; pl. E. Acanthuses, L. Acanthi. Etym: [L., from Gr.
Acantha.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of
Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus
(Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and
Composite orders.

A CAPPELLA
A cap*pel"la. Etym: [It. See Chapel.] (Mus.)
(a) In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the
old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a
capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal.
(b) A time indication, equivalent to alla breve.

ACAPSULAR
A*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + capsular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no capsule.

ACARDIAC
A*car"di*ac, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.

ACARIDAN
A*car"i*dan, n. Etym: [See Acarus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.

ACARINA
Ac`a*ri"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many
species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.

ACARINE
Ac"a*rine, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.

ACAROID
Ac"a*roid, a. Etym: [NL., acarus a mite + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like or resembling a mite.

ACARPELLOUS
Ac`ar*pel"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + carpel.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no carpels.

ACARPOUS
A*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not producing fruit; unfruitful.

ACARUS
Ac"a*rus, n.; pl. Acari. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus including many species of small mites.

ACATALECTIC
A*cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. acatalecticus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.
 -- n.

Defn: A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.

ACATALEPSY
A*cat"a*lep`sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient
Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to
certainty, but only to probability.

ACATALEPTIC
A*cat`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.

ACATER
A*ca"ter, n.

Defn: See Caterer. [Obs.]

ACATES
A*cates", n. pl.

Defn: See Cates. [Obs.]

ACAUDATE
A*cau"date, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caudate.]

Defn: Tailless.

ACAULESCENT
Ac`au*les"cent, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caulescent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in
the ground. Gray.

ACAULINE
A*cau"line, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + cauline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACAULOSE; ACAULOUS
A*cau"lose, A*cau"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. caulis stalk. See Cole.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACCADIAN
Ac*ca"di*an, a. Etym: [From the city Accad. See Gen. x. 10.]

Defn: Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before
the Assyrian conquest.
 -- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce.

ACCEDE
Ac*cede", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Acceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Acceding.]
Etym: [L. accedere to approach, accede; ad + cedere to move, yield:
cf. F. accédere. See Cede.]

1. To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede. [Obs.] T.
Gale.

2. To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Edward IV., who had acceded to the throne in the year 1461. T.
Warton.
If Frederick had acceded to the supreme power. Morley.

3. To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give
one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view;
as, he acceded to my request.
The treaty of Hanover in 1725 . . . to which the Dutch afterwards
acceded. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- To agree; assent; consent; comply; acquiesce; concur.

ACCEDENCE
Ac*ced"ence, n.

Defn: The act of acceding.

ACCEDER
Ac*ced"er, n.

Defn: One who accedes.

ACCELERANDO
Ac*cel`er*an"do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Gradually accelerating the movement.

ACCELERATE
Ac*cel"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accelerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accelerating.] Etym: [L. acceleratus, p. p. of accelerare; ad +
celerare to hasten; celer quick. See Celerity.]

1. To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the
speed of; -- opposed to retard.

2. To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as,
to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.

3. To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our
departure. Accelerated motion (Mech.), motion with a continually
increasing velocity.
 -- Accelerating force, the force which causes accelerated motion.
Nichol.

Syn.
 -- To hasten; expedite; quicken; dispatch; forward; advance;
further.

ACCELERATION
Ac*cel`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceleratio: cf. F. accélération.]

Defn: The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated;
increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the
earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.
A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement,
contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor.
(Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of the
moon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its period
of revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.
 -- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of the
tides, under Priming.
 -- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by which
their apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequence
of which they daily come to the meridian of any place about three
minutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the day
preceding.
 -- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of their
motion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits.

ACCELERATIVE
Ac*cel"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid.

ACCELERATOR
Ac*cel"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as,
accelerator nerves.

ACCELERATORY
Ac*cel"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Accelerative.

ACCELEROGRAPH
Ac*cel"er*o*graph, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -graph.] (Mil.)

Defn: An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns,
etc.

ACCELEROMETER
Ac*cel`er*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -meter.]

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.

ACCEND
Ac*cend", v. t. Etym: [L. accendere, accensum, to kindle; ad +
candère to kindle (only in compounds); rel. to candere to be white,
to gleam. See Candle.]

Defn: To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ACCENDIBILITY
Ac*cend`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed;
inflammability.

ACCENDIBLE
Ac*cend"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.
Ure.

ACCENSION
Ac*cen"sion, n.

Defn: The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.
Locke.

ACCENSOR
Ac*cen"sor, n. Etym: [LL., from p. p. accensus. See Accend.] (R. C.
Ch.)

Defn: One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.

ACCENT
Ac"cent`, n. Etym: [F. accent, L. accentus; ad + cantus a singing,
canere to sing. See Cant.]

1. A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some
particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the
others.

Note: Many English words have two accents, the primary and the
secondary; the primary being uttered with a greater stress of voice
than the secondary; as in as'pira''tion, where the chief stress is on
the third syllable, and a slighter stress on the first. Some words,
as an'tiap'o-plec''tic, in-com'pre-hen'si-bil''i-ty, have two
secondary accents. See Guide to Pron., tt 30-46.

2. A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the
pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of
the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the
vowel marked; as, the French accents.

Note: In the ancient Greek the acute accent (') meant a raised tone
or pitch, the grave (`), the level tone or simply the negation of
accent, the circumflex ( ~ or ^) a tone raised and then depressed. In
works on elocution, the first is often used to denote the rising
inflection of the voice; the second, the falling inflection; and the
third (^), the compound or waving inflection. In dictionaries,
spelling books, and the like, the acute accent is used to designate
the syllable which receives the chief stress of voice.

3. Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or
pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice;
tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent. "Beguiled
you in a plain accent." Shak. "A perfect accent." Thackeray.
The tender accent of a woman's cry. Prior.

4. A word; a significant tone; (pl.) expressions in general; speech.
Winds! on your wings to Heaven her accents bear, Such words as Heaven
alone is fit to hear. Dryden.

5. (Pros.)

Defn: Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.

6. (Mus.)
(a) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning,
and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.
(b) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the
measure.
(c) The rythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a
period.
(d) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage. J. S. Dwight.

7. (Math.)
(a) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above
it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same
letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.
(b) (Trigon.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating
minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve
minutes twenty seven seconds.
(c) (Engin.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is
six feet ten inches.

ACCENT
Ac*cent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accented; p. pr. & vb. n. Accenting.]
Etym: [OF. accenter, F. accentuer.]

1. To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to
utter or to mark with accent.

2. To mark emphatically; to emphasize.

ACCENTLESS
Ac"cent`less, a.

Defn: Without accent.

ACCENTOR
Ac*cen"tor, n. Etym: [L. ad. + cantor singer, canere to sing.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes),
including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the
water thrushes.

ACCENTUABLE
Ac*cen"tu*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accented.

ACCENTUAL
Ac*cen"tu*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.

ACCENTUALITY
Ac*cen`tu*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accentual.

ACCENTUALLY
Ac*cen"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.

ACCENTUATE
Ac*cen"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accentuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accentuating.] Etym: [LL. accentuatus, p. p. of accentuare, fr. L.
accentus: cf. F. accentuer.]

1. To pronounce with an accent or with accents.

2. To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.
In Bosnia, the struggle between East and West was even more
accentuated. London Times.

3. To mark with the written accent.

ACCENTUATION
Ac*cen`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. accentuatio: cf. F. accentuation.]

Defn: Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically
(Eccles. Mus.),

Defn: pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the
liturgy.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accepted; p. pr. & vb. n. Accepting.]
Etym: [F. accepter, L. acceptare, freq. of accipere; ad + capere to
take; akin to E. heave.]

1. To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to
accept a gift; -- often followed by of.
If you accept them, then their worth is great. Shak.
To accept of ransom for my son. Milton.
She accepted of a treat. Addison.

2. To receive with favor; to approve.
The Lord accept thy burnt sacrifice. Ps. xx. 3.
Peradventure he will accept of me. Gen. xxxii. 20.

3. To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your
proposal, amendment, or excuse.

4. To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be
accepted

5. (Com.)

Defn: To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a
bill of exchange. Bouvier.

6. In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed;
as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property
of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.] To accept a
bill (Law), to agree (on the part of the drawee) to pay it when due.
 -- To accept service (Law), to agree that a writ or process shall be
considered as regularly served, when it has not been.
 -- To accept the person (Eccl.), to show favoritism. "God accepteth
no man's person." Gal. ii. 6.

Syn.
 -- To receive; take; admit. See Receive.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", a.

Defn: Accepted. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCEPTABILITY
Ac*cept`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acceptabilitas.]

Defn: The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptability
of repentance." Jer. Taylor.

ACCEPTABLE
Ac*cept"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. acceptable, L. acceptabilis, fr.
acceptare.]

Defn: Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with
pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as,
an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.

ACCEPTABLENESS
Ac*cept"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably
received; acceptability.

ACCEPTABLY
Ac*cept"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give
satisfaction.

ACCEPTANCE
Ac*cept"ance, n.

1. The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with
approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable
reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine,
etc.
They shall come up with acceptance on mine altar. Isa. lx. 7.

2. State of being accepted; acceptableness. "Makes it assured of
acceptance." Shak.

3. (Com.)
(a) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange
is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the
acceptance.
(b) The bill itself when accepted.

4. An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded
and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought
as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered,
or the taking possession as owner.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds
the person in law.

Note: What acts shall amount to such an acceptance is often a
question of great nicety and difficulty. Mozley & W.

Note: In modern law, proposal and acceptance are the constituent
elements into which all contracts are resolved. Acceptance of a bill
of exchange, check, draft, or order, is an engagement to pay it
according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing
the word "accepted" across the face of the bill. Acceptance of goods,
under the statute of frauds, is an intelligent acceptance by a party
knowing the nature of the transaction.

6. Meaning; acceptation. [Obs.] Acceptance of persons, partiality,
favoritism. See under Accept.

ACCEPTANCY
Ac*cept"an*cy, n.

Defn: Acceptance. [R.]
Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs.
Browning.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, a.

Defn: Accepting; receiving.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, n.

Defn: An accepter. Chapman.

ACCEPTATION
Ac`cep*ta"tion, n.

1. Acceptance; reception; favorable reception or regard; state of
being acceptable. [Obs.]
This is saying worthy of all acceptation. 1 Tim. i. 15.
Some things . . . are notwithstanding of so great dignity and
acceptation with God. Hooker.

2. The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or
generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual
acceptation.
My words, in common acceptation, Could never give this provocation.
Gay.

ACCEPTEDLY
Ac*cept"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a accepted manner; admittedly.

ACCEPTER
Ac*cept"er, n.

1. A person who accepts; a taker.

2. A respecter; a viewer with partiality. [Obs.]
God is no accepter of persons. Chillingworth.

3. (Law)

Defn: An acceptor.

ACCEPTILATION
Ac*cep`ti*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptilatio entry of a debt
collected, acquittance, fr. p. p. of accipere (cf. Accept) + latio a
carrying, fr. latus, p. p. of ferre to carry: cf. F. acceptilation.]
(Civil Law)

Defn: Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without
payment; free remission.

ACCEPTION
Ac*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptio a receiving, accepting: cf. F.
acception.]

Defn: Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.]
Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense to
which the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller.
Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ACCEPTIVE
Ac*cept"ive, a.

1. Fit for acceptance.

2. Ready to accept. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ACCEPTOR
Ac*cept"or (#; 277), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),

Defn: one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after
he has accepted.

ACCESS
Ac*cess" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accès, L. accessus, fr. accedere. See
Accede.]

1. A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission;
accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.
I did repel his letters, and denied His access to me. Shak.

2. The means, place, or way by which a thing may be approached;
passage way; as, the access is by a neck of land. "All access was
thronged." Milton.

3. Admission to sexual intercourse.
During coverture, access of the husband shall be presumed, unless the
contrary be shown. Blackstone.

4. Increase by something added; addition; as, an access of territory.
[In this sense accession is more generally used.]
I, from the influence of thy looks, receive Access in every virtue.
Milton.

5. An onset, attack, or fit of disease.
The first access looked like an apoplexy. Burnet.

6. A paroxysm; a fit of passion; an outburst; as, an access of fury.
[A Gallicism]

ACCESSARILY
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessary.

ACCESSARINESS
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessary.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (#; 277), a.

Defn: Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp.,
uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See
Accessory.
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak.
Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy,
these are not of least reckoning. Milton.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (277), n.; pl. Accessaries. Etym: [Cf. Accessory and LL.
accessarius.] (Law)

Defn: One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or
instigator to the commission of an offense. Accessary before the fact
(Law), one who commands or counsels an offense, not being present at
its commission.
 -- Accessary after the fact, one who, after an offense, assists or
shelters the offender, not being present at the commission of the
offense.

Note: This word, as used in law, is spelt accessory by Blackstone and
many others; but in this sense is spelt accessary by Bouvier,
Burrill, Burns, Whishaw, Dane, and the Penny Cyclopedia; while in
other senses it is spelt accessory. In recent text-books on criminal
law the distinction is not preserved, the spelling being either
accessary or accessory.

ACCESSIBILITY
Ac*cess`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. accessibilitas: cf. F.
accessibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach;
receptibility. Langhorne.

ACCESSIBLE
Ac*cess"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. accessibilis, fr. accedere: cf. F.
accessible. See Accede.]

1. Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town
or mountain, an accessible person.

2. Open to the influence of; -- with to. "Minds accessible to
reason." Macaulay.

3. Obtainable; to be got at.
The best information . . . at present accessible. Macaulay.

ACCESSIBLY
Ac*cess"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accessible manner.

ACCESSION
Ac*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. accessio, fr. accedere: cf. F. accession.
See Accede.]

1. A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's
accession to a confederacy.

2. Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation
from without; as, an accession of wealth or territory.
The only accession which the Roman empire received was the province
of Britain. Gibbon.

3. (Law)
(a) A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a corporeal
substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a
right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the
thing is not changed into a different species). Thus, the owner of a
cow becomes the owner of her calf.
(b) The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already
in force between other powers. Kent.

4. The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity;
as, the accession of the house of Stuart; -- applied especially to
the epoch of a new dynasty.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or
paroxysm.

Syn.
 -- Increase; addition; augmentation; enlargement.

ACCESSIONAL
Ac*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ACCESSIVE
Ac*ces"sive, a.

Defn: Additional.

ACCESSORIAL
Ac`ces*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency,
accessorial guilt.

ACCESSORILY
Ac*ces"so*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.

ACCESSORINESS
Ac*ces"so*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. accessorius. See Access, and cf.
Accessary.]

Defn: Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way;
additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal;
contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when
of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot;
accessory sounds in music.

Note: Ash accents the antepenult; and this is not only more regular,
but preferable, on account of easiness of pronunciation. Most
orhoëpists place the accent on the first syllable.

Syn.
 -- Accompanying; contributory; auxiliary; subsidiary; subservient;
additional; acceding.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry, n.; pl. Accessories.

1. That which belongs to something else deemed the principal;
something additional and subordinate. "The aspect and accessories of
a den of banditti." Carlyle.

2. (Law)

Defn: Same as Accessary, n.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Anything that enters into a work of art without being
indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts. Elmes.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accomplice; ally; coadjutor. See Abettor.

ACCIACCATURA
Ac*ciac`ca*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It., from acciaccare to crush.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is
prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent
to the short appoggiatura.

ACCIDENCE
Ac"ci*dence, n. Etym: [A corruption of Eng. accidents, pl. of
accident. See Accident, 2.]

1. The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.
Milton.

2. The rudiments of any subject. Lowell.

ACCIDENT
Ac"ci*dent, n. Etym: [F. accident, fr. L. accidens, -dentis, p. pr.
of accidere to happen; ad + cadere to fall. See Cadence, Case.]

1. Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's
foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected
event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen
occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a
mishap; as, to die by an accident.
Of moving accidents by flood and field. Shak.
Thou cam'st not to thy place by accident: It is the very place God
meant for thee. Trench.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as
gender, number, case.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of
arms.

4. (Log.)
(a) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as
whiteness in paper; an attribute.
(b) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as
sweetness, softness.

5. Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or
nonessential; as, beauty is an accident.
This accident, as I call it, of Athens being situated some miles from
the sea. J. P. Mahaffy.

6. Unusual appearance or effect. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Accident, in Law, is equivalent to casus, or such unforeseen,
extraordinary, extraneous interference as is out of the range of
ordinary calculation.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accidentel, earlier accidental.]

1. Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according
to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental
visit.

2. Nonessential; not necessary belonging; incidental; as, are
accidental to a play. Accidental chords (Mus.), those which contain
one or more tones foreign to their proper harmony.
 -- Accidental colors (Opt.), colors depending on the
hypersensibility of the retina of the eye for complementary colors.
They are purely subjective sensations of color which often result
from the contemplation of actually colored bodies.
 -- Accidental point (Persp.), the point in which a right line, drawn
from the eye, parallel to a given right line, cuts the perspective
plane; so called to distinguish it from the principal point, or point
of view, where a line drawn from the eye perpendicular to the
perspective plane meets this plane.
 -- Accidental lights (Paint.), secondary lights; effects of light
other than ordinary daylight, such as the rays of the sun darting
through a cloud, or between the leaves of trees; the effect of
moonlight, candlelight, or burning bodies. Fairholt.

Syn.
 -- Casual; fortuitous; contingent; occasional; adventitious.
 -- Accidental, Incidental, Casual, Fortuitous, Contingent. We speak
of a thing as accidental when it falls out as by chance, and not in
the regular course of things; as, an accidental meeting, an
accidental advantage, etc. We call a thing incidental when it falls,
as it were, into some regular course of things, but is secondary, and
forms no essential part thereof; as, an incremental remark, an
incidental evil, an incidental benefit. We speak of a thing as
casual, when it falls out or happens, as it were, by mere chance,
without being prearranged or premeditated; as, a casual remark or
encounter; a casual observer. An idea of the unimportant is attached
to what is casual. Fortuitous is applied to what occurs without any
known cause, and in opposition to what has been foreseen; as, a
fortuitous concourse of atoms. We call a thing contingent when it is
such that, considered in itself, it may or may not happen, but is
dependent for its existence on something else; as, the time of my
coming will be contingent on intelligence yet to be received.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, n.

1. A property which is not essential; a nonessential; anything
happening accidentally.
He conceived it just that accidentals . . . should sink with the
substance of the accusation. Fuller.

2. pl. (Paint.)

Defn: Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on
certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness
and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of
a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note.

ACCIDENTALISM
Ac`ci*den"tal*ism, n.

Defn: Accidental character or effect. Ruskin.

ACCIDENTALITY
Ac`ci*den*tal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.]
Coleridge.

ACCIDENTALLY
Ac`ci*den"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance;
unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.

ACCIDENTALNESS
Ac`ci*den"tal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; casualness.

ACCIDIE
Ac"ci*die, n. Etym: [OF. accide, accidie, LL. accidia, acedia, fr.
Gr.

Defn: Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer.

ACCIPENSER
Ac`ci*pen"ser, n.

Defn: See Acipenser.

ACCIPIENT
Ac*cip"i*ent, n. Etym: [L. accipiens, p. pr. of accipere. See
Accept.]

Defn: A receiver. [R.] Bailey

ACCIPITER
Ac*cip"i*ter, n.; pl. E. Accipiters. L. Accipitres. Etym: [L., hawk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk.

ACCIPITRAL
Ac*cip"i*tral, n.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.
Lowell.

ACCIPITRES
Ac*cip"i*tres, n. pl. Etym: [L., hawks.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked
bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families,
represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.

ACCIPITRINE
Ac*cip"i*trine (#; 277), a. Etym: [Cf. F. accipitrin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.

ACCISMUS
Ac*cis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: Affected refusal; coyness.

ACCITE
Ac*cite", v. t. Etym: [L. accitus, p. p. of accire, accere, to call
for; ad + ciere to move, call. See Cite.]

Defn: To cite; to summon. [Obs.]
Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians.
Chapman.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. t. Etym: [L. acclamare; ad + clamare to cry out. See
Claim, Clamor.] [R.]

1. To applaud. "A glad acclaiming train." Thomson.

2. To declare by acclamations.
While the shouting crowd Acclaims thee king of traitors. Smollett.

3. To shout; as, to acclaim my joy.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. i.

Defn: To shout applause.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", n.

Defn: Acclamation. [Poetic] Milton.

ACCLAIMER
Ac*claim"er, n.

Defn: One who acclaims.

ACCLAMATION
Ac`cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. acclamatio: cf. F. acclamation.]

1. A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of
approval; loud applause.
On such a day, a holiday having been voted by acclamation, an
ordinary walk would not satisfy the children. Southey.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people
expressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatory
acclamations are recorded. Elmes.

ACCLAMATORY
Ac*clam"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.

ACCLIMATABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimated.

ACCLIMATATION
Ac*cli`ma*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acclimation. See Acclimate.]

Defn: Acclimatization.

ACCLIMATE
Ac*cli"mate (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimating.] Etym: [F. acclimater; à (l. ad) + climat climate. See
Climate.]

Defn: To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H.
Newman.

ACCLIMATEMENT
Ac*cli"mate*ment, n.

Defn: Acclimation. [R.]

ACCLIMATION
Ac`cli*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or
habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.

ACCLIMATIZABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ti`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimatized.

ACCLIMATIZATION
Ac*cli"ma*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new
climate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin.

ACCLIMATIZE
Ac*cli"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimatizing.]

Defn: To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is
natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange
climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.

ACCLIMATURE
Ac*cli"ma*ture (#; 135), n.

Defn: The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.]
Caldwell.

ACCLIVE
Ac*clive", a.

Defn: Acclivous. [Obs.]

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous. I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous.  I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITY
Ac*cliv"i*ty, n.; pl. Acclivities. Etym: [L. acclivitas, fr.
acclivis, acclivus, ascending; ad + clivus a hill, slope, fr. root
kli to lean. See Lean.]

Defn: A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill,
considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending;
an upward slope; ascent.

ACCLIVOUS
Ac*cli"vous (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acclivis and acclivus.]

Defn: Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.

ACCLOY
Ac*cloy", v. t. Etym: [OF. encloyer, encloer, F. enclouer, to drive
in a nail, fr. L. in + clavus nail.]

Defn: To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to
burden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOAST
Ac*coast", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Accost, Coast.]

Defn: To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.]
Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser.

ACCOIL
Ac*coil", v. t. Etym: [OE. acoillir to receive, F. accueillir; L. ad
+ colligere to collect. See Coil.]

1. To gather together; to collect. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

ACCOLADE
Ac`co*lade" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accolade, It. accolata, fr.
accollare to embrace; L. ad + collum neck.]

1. A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am
embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a
sword.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A brace used to join two or more staves.

ACCOMBINATION
Ac*com*bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. ad + E. combination.]

Defn: A combining together. [R.]

ACCOMMODABLE
Ac*com"mo*da*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accommodable.]

Defn: That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I.
Watts.

ACCOMMODABLENESS
Ac*com"mo*dable*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accommodated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accommodating.] Etym: [L. accommodatus, p. p. of accommodare; ad +
commodare to make fit, help; con- + modus measure, proportion. See
Mode.]

1. To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform;
as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances. "They accomodate their
counsels to his inclination." Addison.

2. To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to
adjust; to settle; as, to accommodate differences, a dispute, etc.

3. To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to
favor; to oblige; as, to accommodate a friend with a loan or with
lodgings.

4. To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy;
to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements
to facts, etc.; as, to accommodate prophecy to events.

Syn.
 -- To suit; adapt; conform; adjust; arrange.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. i.

Defn: To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, a. Etym: [L. accommodatus, p.p. of accommodare.]

Defn: Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end. [Archaic]
Tillotson.

ACCOMMODATELY
Ac*com"mo*date*ly, adv.

Defn: Suitably; fitly. [R.]

ACCOMMODATENESS
Ac*com"mo*date*ness, n.

Defn: Fitness. [R.]

ACCOMMODATING
Ac*com"mo*da`ting, a.

Defn: Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as
an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.

ACCOMMODATION
Ac*com`mo*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. accommodatio, fr. accommodare: cf. F.
accommodation.]

1. The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or
adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to. "The organization
of the body with accommodation to its functions." Sir M. Hale.

2. Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.

3. Whatever supplies a want or affords ease, refreshment, or
convenience; anything furnished which is desired or needful; -- often
in the plural; as, the accomodations -- that is, lodgings and food --
at an inn. Sir W. Scott.

4. An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation;
settlement. "To come to terms of accommodation." Macaulay.

5. The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy,
to something not originally referred to or intended.
Many of those quotations from the Old Testament were probably
intended as nothing more than accommodations. Paley.

6. (Com.)
(a) A loan of money.
(b) An accommodation bill or note. Accommodation bill, or note
(Com.), a bill of exchange which a person accepts, or a note which a
person makes and delivers to another, not upon a consideration
received, but for the purpose of raising money on credit.
 -- Accommodation coach, or train, one running at moderate speed and
stopping at all or nearly all stations.
 -- Accommodation ladder (Naut.), a light ladder hung over the side
of a ship at the gangway, useful in ascending from, or descending to,
small boats.

ACCOMMODATOR
Ac*com"mo*da`tor, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton.

ACCOMPANABLE
Ac*com"pa*na*ble, a.

Defn: Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ACCOMPANIER
Ac*com"pa*ni*er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.

ACCOMPANIMENT
Ac*com"pa*ni*ment, n. Etym: [F. accompagnement.]

Defn: That which accompanies; something that attends as a
circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the
principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.
Specifically: (Mus.)

Defn: A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or
parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts,
accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony
of a figured bass. P. Cyc.

ACCOMPANIST
Ac*com"pa*nist, n.

Defn: The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accompanied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accompanying] Etym: [OF. aacompaignier, F. accompagner, to associate
with, fr. OF. compaign, compain, companion. See Company.]

1. To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company
with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied
his speech with a bow.
The Persian dames, . . . In sumptuous cars, accompanied his march.
Glover.
They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts. Sir P.
Sidney.
He was accompanied by two carts filled with wounded rebels. Macaulay.

2. To cohabit with. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

Syn.
 -- To attend; escort; go with.
 -- To Accompany, Attend, Escort. We accompany those with whom we go
as companions. The word imports an equality of station. We attend
those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of
subordination. We escort those whom we attend with a view to guard
and protect. A gentleman accompanies a friend to some public place;
he attends or escorts a lady.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. i.

1. To associate in a company; to keep company. [Obs.] Bacon.
Men say that they will drive away one another, . . . and not
accompany together. Holland.

2. To cohabit (with). [Obs.] Milton.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.

ACCOMPLETIVE
Ac*com"ple*tive, a. Etym: [L. ad + complere, completum, to fill up.]

Defn: Tending to accomplish. [R.]

ACCOMPLICE
Ac*com"plice, n. Etym: [Ac- (perh. for the article a or for L. ad) +
E. complice. See Complice.]

1. A cooperator. [R.]
Success unto our valiant general, And happiness to his accomplices!
Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an
offense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursed
accomplice of his treason." Johnson.

Note: It is followed by with or of before a person and by in (or
sometimes of) before the crime; as, A was an accomplice with B in the
murder of C. Dryden uses it with to before a thing. "Suspected for
accomplice to the fire." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accessory; assistant; associate; confederate; coadjutor;
ally; promoter. See Abettor.

ACCOMPLICESHIP
Ac*com"plice*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor.

ACCOMPLICITY
Ac`com*plic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.]

ACCOMPLISH
Ac*com"plish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accomplished, p. pr. & vb. n.
Accomplishing.] Etym: [OE. acomplissen, OF. accomplir, F. accomplir;
L. ad + complere to fill up, complete. See Complete, Finish.]

1. To complete, as time or distance.
That He would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of
Jerusalem. Dan. ix. 2.
He had accomplished half a league or more. Prescott.

2. To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to
execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a
promise.
This that is written must yet be accomplished in me. Luke xxii. 37.

3. To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in
acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.
The armorers accomplishing the knights. Shak.
It [the moon] is fully accomplished for all those ends to which
Providence did appoint it. Wilkins.
These qualities . . . go to accomplish a perfect woman. Cowden
Clarke.

4. To gain; to obtain. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To do; perform; fulfill; realize; effect; effectuate; complete;
consummate; execute; achieve; perfect; equip; furnish.
 -- To Accomplish, Effect, Execute, Achieve, Perform. These words
agree in the general idea of carrying out to some end proposed. To
accomplish (to fill up to the measure of the intention) generally
implies perseverance and skill; as, to accomplish a plan proposed by
one's self, an object, a design, an undertaking. "Thou shalt
accomplish my desire." 1 Kings v. 9.
He . . . expressed his desire to see a union accomplished between
England and Scotland. Macaulay.
To effect (to work out) is much like accomplish. It usually implies
some degree of difficulty contended with; as, he effected or
accomplished what he intended, his purpose, but little. "What he
decreed, he effected." Milton.
To work in close design by fraud or guile What force effected not.
Milton.
To execute (to follow out to the end, to carry out, or into effect)
implies a set mode of operation; as, to execute the laws or the
orders of another; to execute a work, a purpose, design, plan,
project. To perform is much like to do, though less generally
applied. It conveys a notion of protracted and methodical effort; as,
to perform a mission, a part, a task, a work. "Thou canst best
perform that office." Milton.
The Saints, like stars, around his seat Perform their courses still.
Keble.
To achieve (to come to the end or arrive at one's purpose) usually
implies some enterprise or undertaking of importance, difficulty, and
excellence.

ACCOMPLISHABLE
Ac*com"plish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle.

ACCOMPLISHED
Ac*com"plished, a.

1. Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.

2. Complete in acquirements as the result usually of training; --
commonly in a good sense; as, an accomplished scholar, an
accomplished villain.
They . . . show themselves accomplished bees. Holland.
Daughter of God and man, accomplished Eve. Milton.

ACCOMPLISHER
Ac*com"plish*er, n.

Defn: One who accomplishes.

ACCOMPLISHMENT
Ac*com"plish*ment, n. Etym: [F. accomplissement, fr. accomplir.]

1. The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion;
fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy,
etc.

2. That which completes, perfects, or equips thoroughly; acquirement;
attainment; that which constitutes excellence of mind, or elegance of
manners, acquired by education or training. "My new accomplishment of
dancing." Churchill. "Accomplishments befitting a station."
Thackeray.
Accomplishments have taken virtue's place, And wisdom falls before
exterior grace. Cowper.

ACCOMPT
Ac*compt" (#; formerly #), n.

Defn: See Account.

Note: Accompt, accomptant, etc., are archaic forms.

ACCOMPTABLE
Ac*compt"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Accountable.

ACCOMPTANT
Ac*compt"ant, n.

Defn: See Accountant.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", n. Etym: [OE. acord, accord, OF. acort, acorde, F. accord,
fr. OF. acorder, F. accorder. See Accord, v. t.]

1. Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of
mind; consent; assent.
A mediator of an accord and peace between them. Bacon.
These all continued with one accord in prayer. Acts i. 14.

2. Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; concord; as, the
accord of tones.
Those sweet accords are even the angels' lays. Sir J. Davies.

3. Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence of things; as, the
accord of light and shade in painting.

4. Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by
own; as, of one's own accord.
That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not
reap. Lev. xxv. 5.
Of his own accord he went unto you. 2 Cor. vii. 17.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreement between parties in controversy, by which
satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed,
bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity.
They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accorded; p. pr. & vb. n. According.]
Etym: [OE. acorden, accorden, OF. acorder, F. accorder, fr. LL.
accordare; L. ad + cor, cordis, heart. Cf. Concord, Discord, and see
Heart.]

1. To make to agree or correspond; to suit one thing to another; to
adjust; -- followed by to. [R.]
Her hands accorded the lute's music to the voice. Sidney.

2. To bring to an agreement, as persons; to reconcile; to settle,
adjust, harmonize, or compose, as things; as, to accord suits or
controversies.
When they were accorded from the fray. Spenser.
All which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult can
never be accorded but by a competent stock of critical learning.
South.

3. To grant as suitable or proper; to concede; to award; as, to
accord to one due praise. "According his desire." Spenser.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. i.

1. To agree; to correspond; to be in harmony; -- followed by with,
formerly also by to; as, his disposition accords with his looks.
My heart accordeth with my tongue. Shak.
Thy actions to thy words accord. Milton.

2. To agree in pitch and tone.

ACCORDABLE
Ac*cord"a*ble, a. Etym: [OF. acordable, F. accordable.]

1. Agreeing. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Reconcilable; in accordance.

ACCORDANCE
Ac*cord"ance, n. Etym: [OF. acordance.]

Defn: Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with the
law." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Harmony; unison; coincidence.

ACCORDANCY
Ac*cord"an*cy, n.

Defn: Accordance. [R.] Paley.

ACCORDANT
Ac*cord"ant, a. Etym: [OF. acordant, F. accordant.]

Defn: Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; --
followed by with or to.
Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin.
And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith.

ACCORDANTLY
Ac*cord"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed
by with or to.

ACCORDER
Ac*cord"er, n.

Defn: One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.]

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, p. a.

Defn: Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This according
voice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well."
Tennyson.
According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay.
Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.

Note: According to has been called a prepositional phrase, but
strictly speaking, according is a participle in the sense of
agreeing, acceding, and to alone is the preposition. According as,
precisely as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which.
According as is an adverbial phrase, of which the propriety has been
doubted; but good usage sanctions it. See According, adv.
Is all things well, According as I gave directions Shak.
The land which the Lord will give you according as he hath promised.
Ex. xii. 25.
p. 13

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, adv.

Defn: Accordingly; correspondingly. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCORDINGLY
Ac*cord"ing*ly, adv.

1. Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.
Behold, and so proceed accordingly. Shak.

2. In natural sequence; consequently; so.

Syn.
 -- Consequently; therefore; wherefore; hence; so.
 -- Accordingly, Consequently, indicate a connection between two
things, the latter of which is done on account of the former.
Accordingly marks the connection as one of simple accordance or
congruity, leading naturally to the result which followed; as, he was
absent when I called, and I accordingly left my card; our
preparations were all finished, and we accordingly set sail.
Consequently all finished, and we accordingly set sail. Consequently
marks a closer connection, that of logical or causal sequence; as,
the papers were not ready, and consequently could not be signed.

ACCORDION
Ac*cor"di*on, n. Etym: [See Accord.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are
generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.

ACCORDIONIST
Ac*cor"di*on*ist, n.

Defn: A player on the accordion.

ACCORDMENT
Ac*cord"ment, n. Etym: [OF. acordement. See Accord, v.]

Defn: Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower.

ACCORPORATE
Ac*cor"po*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. accorporare; ad + corpus, corporis,
body.]

Defn: To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost" (#; 115), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accosted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accosting.] Etym: [F. accoster, LL. accostare to bring side by side;
L. ad + costa rib, side. See Coast, and cf. Accoast.]

1. To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or
side of. [Obs.] "So much [of Lapland] as accosts the sea." Fuller.

2. To approach; to make up to. [Archaic] Shak.

3. To speak to first; to address; to greet. "Him, Satan thus
accosts." Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", v. i.

Defn: To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to the
sea accost." Spenser.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", n.

Defn: Address; greeting. [R.] J. Morley.

ACCOSTABLE
Ac*cost"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accostable.]

Defn: Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne.

ACCOSTED
Ac*cost"ed, a. (Her.)

Defn: Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.

ACCOUCHEMENT
Ac*couche"ment (#; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher to be delivered
of a child, to aid in delivery, OF. acouchier orig. to lay down, put
to bed, go to bed; L. ad + collocare to lay, put, place. See
Collate.]

Defn: Delivery in childbed

ACCOUCHEUR
Ac*cou*cheur", n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher. See Accouchement.]

Defn: A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an
obstetrician.

ACCOUCHEUSE
Ac*cou*cheuse", n. Etym: [F.., fem. of accoucher.]

Defn: A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", n. Etym: [OE. acount, account, accompt, OF. acont, fr.
aconter. See Account, v. t., Count, n., 1.]

1. A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of
some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.
A beggarly account of empty boxes. Shak.

2. A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed
statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of
other things subjected to a reckoning or review; as, to keep one's
account at the bank.

3. A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc.,
explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given
of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason,
ground, consideration, motive, etc.; as, on no account, on every
account, on all accounts.

4. A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a
relation or narrative; a report; a description; as, an account of a
battle. "A laudable account of the city of London." Howell.

5. A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with
reference to judgment thereon.
Give an account of thy stewardship. Luke xvi. 2.

6. An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment. "To stand high in
your account." Shak.

7. Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit. "Men of account."
Pope. "To turn to account." Shak. Account current, a running or
continued account between two or more parties, or a statement of the
particulars of such an account.
 -- In account with, in a relation requiring an account to be kept.
 -- On account of, for the sake of; by reason of; because of.
 -- On one's own account, for one's own interest or behalf.
 -- To make account, to have an opinion or expectation; to reckon.
[Obs.]
s other part . . . makes account to find no slender arguments for
this assertion out of those very scriptures which are commonly urged
against it. Milton.
-- To make account of, to hold in estimation; to esteem; as, he makes
small account of beauty.
 -- To take account of, or to take into account, to take into
consideration; to notice. "Of their doings, God takes no account."
Milton
.
 -- A writ of account (Law), a writ which the plaintiff brings
demanding that the defendant shall render his just account, or show
good cause to the contrary; -- called also an action of account.
Cowell.

Syn.
 -- Narrative; narration; relation; recital; description;
explanation; rehearsal.
 -- Account, Narrative, Narration, Recital. These words are applied
to different modes of rehearsing a series of events. Account turns
attention not so much to the speaker as to the fact related, and more
properly applies to the report of some single event, or a group of
incidents taken as whole; as, an account of a battle, of a shipwreck,
etc. A narrative is a continuous story of connected incidents, such
as one friend might tell to another; as, a narrative of the events of
a siege, a narrative of one's life, etc. Narration is usually the
same as narrative, but is sometimes used to describe the mode of
relating events; as, his powers of narration are uncommonly great.
Recital denotes a series of events drawn out into minute particulars,
usually expressing something which peculiarly interests the feelings
of the speaker; as, the recital of one's wrongs, disappointments,
sufferings, etc.

1. To reckon; to compute; to count. [Obs.]
The motion of . . . the sun whereby years are accounted. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; --
with to. [R.] Clarendon.

3. To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to
deem.
Accounting that God was able to raise him up. Heb. xi. 19.

4. To recount; to relate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", v. i.

1. To render or receive an account or relation of particulars; as, an
officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received.

2. To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for; as, we
must account for the use of our opportunities.

3. To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain; -
- with for; as, idleness accounts for poverty. To account of, to
esteem; to prize; to value. Now used only in the passive. "I account
of her beauty." Shak.
Newer was preaching more accounted of than in the sixteenth century.
Canon Robinson.

ACCOUNTABILITY
Ac*count"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to
render an account; accountableness. "The awful idea of
accountability." R. Hall.

ACCOUNTABLE
Ac*count"a*ble, a.

1. Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every
man is accountable to God for his conduct.

2. Capable of being accounted for; explicable. [R.]
True religion . . . intelligible, rational, and accountable, -- not a
burden but a privilege. B. Whichcote.

Syn.
 -- Amenable; responsible; liable; answerable.

ACCOUNTABLENESS
Ac*count"a*ble ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.

ACCOUNTABLY
Ac*count"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accountable manner.

ACCOUNTANCY
Ac*count"an*cy, n.

Defn: The art or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accomptant, OF. acontant, p. pr.]

1. One who renders account; one accountable.

2. A reckoner.

3. One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in
a public office, who has charge of the accounts. Accountatn general,
the head or superintending accountant in certain public offices.
Also, formerly, an officer in the English court of chancery who
received the moneys paid into the court, and deposited them in the
Bank of England.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, a.

Defn: Accountable. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCOUNTANTSHIP
Ac*count"ant*ship, n. Etym: [Accountant + -ship.]

Defn: The office or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNT BOOK
Ac*count" book`.

Defn: A book in which accounts are kept. Swift.

ACCOUPLE
Ac*cou"ple, v. t. Etym: [OF. acopler, F. accoupler. See Couple.]

Defn: To join; to couple. [R.]
The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall.

ACCOUPLEMENT
Ac*cou"ple*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accouplement.]

1. The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union. [R.]
Caxton.

2. That which couples, as a tie or brace. [R.]

ACCOURAGE
Ac*cour"age, v. t. Etym: [OF. acoragier; à (L. ad) + corage. See
Courage.]

Defn: To encourage. [Obs.]

ACCOURT
Ac*court", v. t. Etym: [Ac-, for L. ad. See Court.]

Defn: To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.

ACCOUTER; ACCOUTRE
Ac*cou"ter, Ac*cou"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accoutered or Accoutred;
p. pr. & vb. n. Accoutering or Accoutring.] Etym: [F. accouter, OF.
accoutrer, accoustrer; à (L. ad) + perh. LL. custor, for custos
guardian, sacristan (cf. Custody), or perh. akin to E. guilt.]

Defn: To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military
service; to equip; to attire; to array.
Bot accoutered like young men. Shak.
For this, in rags accoutered are they seen. Dryden.
Accoutered with his burden and his staff. Wordsworth.

ACCOUTERMENTS; ACCOUTREMENTS
Ac*cou"ter*ments, Ac*cou"tre*ments, n. pl. Etym: [F. accoutrement,
earlier also accoustrement, earlier also accoustrement. See
Accouter.]

Defn: Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and
equipments worn by soldiers.
How gay with all the accouterments of war!

ACCOY
Ac*coy", v. t. Etym: [OF. acoyer; ac-, for L. ad. See Coy.]

1. To render quiet; to soothe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To subdue; to tame; to daunt. [Obs.]
Then is your careless courage accoyed. Spenser.

ACCREDIT
Ac*cred"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accredited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accrediting.] Etym: [F. accréditer; à (L. ad) + crédit credit. See
Credit.]

1. To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority;
to sanction.
His censure will . . . accredit his praises. Cowper.
These reasons . . . which accredit and fortify mine opinion. Shelton.

2. To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or
diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.
Beton . . . was accredited to the Court of France. Froude.

3. To believe; to credit; to put trust in.
The version of early Roman history which was accredited in the fifth
century. Sir G. C. Lewis.
He accredited and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft.
Southey.

4. To credit; to vouch for or consider (some one) as doing something,
or (something) as belonging to some one. To accredit (one) with
(something), to attribute something to him; as, Mr. Clay was
accredited with these views; they accredit him with a wise saying.

ACCREDITATION
Ac*cred`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.

ACCREMENTITIAL
Ac`cre*men*ti"tial, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to accremention.

ACCREMENTITION
Ac`cre*men*ti"tion, n. Etym: [See Accresce, Increment.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of generation by development of blastema, or
fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like
the individual from which it proceeds.

ACCRESCE
Ac*cresce", v. i. Etym: [L. accrescere. See Accrue.]

1. To accrue. [R.]

2. To increase; to grow. [Obs.] Gillespie.

ACCRESCENCE
Ac*cres"cence, n. Etym: [LL. accrescentia.]

Defn: Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]
The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of a
general, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.

ACCRESCENT
Ac*cres"cent, a. Etym: [L. accrescens, -entis, p. pr. of accrescere;
ad + crescere to grow. See Crescent.]

1. Growing; increasing. Shuckford.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing larger after flowering. Gray.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. i. Etym: [From L. accretus, p. p. of accrescere to
increase.]

1. To grow together.

2. To adhere; to grow (to); to be added; -- with to.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. t.

Defn: To make adhere; to add. Earle.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", a.

1. Characterized by accretion; made up; as, accrete matter.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Grown together. Gray.

ACCRETION
Ac*cre"tion, n. Etym: [L. accretio, fr. accrescere to increase. Cf.
Crescent, Increase, Accrue.]

1. The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of
organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.
Arbuthnot.

2. The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of
parts externally; an extraneous addition; as, an accretion of earth.
A mineral . . . augments not by grown, but by accretion. Owen.
To strip off all the subordinate parts of his as a later accretion.
Sir G. C. Lewis.

3. Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of
particles so as to form a solid mass.

4. A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers
toes. Dana.

5. (Law)
(a) The adhering of property to something else, by which the owner of
one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of
land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by
a gradual recession of the water from the usual watermark.
(b) Gain to an heir or legatee, failure of a coheir to the same
succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share.
Wharton. Kent.

ACCRETIVE
Ac*cre"tive, a.

Defn: Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.
Glanvill.

ACCRIMINATE
Ac*crim"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. ac- (for ad to) + criminari.]

Defn: To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.]

ACCROACH
Ac*croach", v. t. Etym: [OE. acrochen, accrochen, to obtain, OF.
acrochier, F. accrocher; à (L. ad) + croc hook (E. crook).]

1. To hook, or draw to one's self as with a hook. [Obs.]

2. To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.
They had attempted to accroach to themselves royal power. Stubbs.

ACCROACHMENT
Ac*croach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accrochement.]

Defn: An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCRUAL
Ac*cru"al, n.

Defn: Accrument. [R.]

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Accrued; p. pr. & vb. n. Accruing.]
Etym: [See Accrue, n., and cf. Accresce, Accrete.]

1. To increase; to augment.
And though power failed, her courage did accrue. Spenser.

2. To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or
result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the
produce of money lent. "Interest accrues to principal." Abbott.
The great and essential advantages accruing to society from the
freedom of the press. Junius.

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", n. Etym: [F. accrû, OF. acreü, p. p. of accroitre, OF.
acroistre to increase; L. ad + crescere to increase. Cf. Accretion,
Crew. See Crescent.]

Defn: Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.]

ACCRUER
Ac*cru"er, n. (Law)

Defn: The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.

ACCRUMENT
Ac*cru"ment, n.

Defn: The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.
Jer. Taylor.

ACCUBATION
Ac`cu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. accubatio, for accubatio, fr. accubare to
recline; ad + cubare to lie down. See Accumb.]

Defn: The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the
ancients at meals.

ACCUMB
Ac*cumb", v. i. Etym: [L. accumbere; ad + cumbere (only in compounds)
to lie down.]

Defn: To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCUMBENCY
Ac*cum"ben*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, a.

1. Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.
The Roman.. accumbent posture in eating. Arbuthnot.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another
leaf. Gray.
Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.
Eaton.

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, n.

Defn: One who reclines at table.

ACCUMBER
Ac*cum"ber, v. t.

Defn: To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accumulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accumulating.] Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare; ad +
cumulare to heap. See Cumulate.]

Defn: To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together;
to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.

Syn.
 -- To collect; pile up; store; amass; gather; aggregate; heap
together; hoard.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. i.

Defn: To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates, and men decay. Goldsmith.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, a. Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare.]

Defn: Collected; accumulated. Bacon.

ACCUMULATION
Ac*cu`mu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. accumulatio; cf. F. accumulation.]

1. The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that
which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of
evils, of wealth, of honors.

2. (Law)

Defn: The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.
Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means of
weights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.
 -- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of several
together, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed by
the rules.

ACCUMULATIVE
Ac*cu"mu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass;
cumulative; additional.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n.

ACCUMULATOR
Ac*cu"mu*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored,
such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic
elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the
energy of electrical charges, etc.

3. A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope,
as in deep-sea dredging.

ACCURACY
Ac"cu*ra*cy (#; 277), n. Etym: [See Accurate.]

Defn: The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this
exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to
a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the
value of testimony depends on its accuracy.
The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, and
to reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid.
The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner.

ACCURATE
Ac"cu*rate, a. Etym: [L. accuratus, p. p. and a., fr. accurare to
take care of; ad + curare to take care, cura care. See Cure.]

1. In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of
requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error,
or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure;
accurate expression, knowledge, etc.

2. Precisely fixed; executed with care; careful. [Obs.]
Those conceive the celestial bodies have more accurate influences
upon these things below. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Correct; exact; just; nice; particular.
 -- Accurate, Correct, Exact, Precise. We speak of a thing as correct
with reference to some rule or standard of comparison; as, a correct
account, a correct likeness, a man of correct deportment. We speak of
a thing as accurate with reference to the care bestowed upon its
execution, and the increased correctness to be expected therefrom;
as, an accurate statement, an accurate detail of particulars. We
speak of a thing as exact with reference to that perfected state of a
thing in which there is no defect and no redundance; as, an exact
coincidence, the exact truth, an exact likeness. We speak of a thing
as precise when we think of it as strictly conformed to some rule or
model, as if cut down thereto; as a precise conformity instructions;
precisely right; he was very precise in giving his directions.

ACCURATELY
Ac"cu*rate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or
defect.

ACCURATENESS
Ac"cu*rate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness;
nicety; precision.

ACCURSE
Ac*curse", v. t. Etym: [OE. acursien, acorsien; pref. a + cursien to
curse. See Curse.]

Defn: To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to
curse; to execrate; to anathematize.
And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.
Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.

ACCURSED; ACCURST
Ac*cursed", Ac*curst", p. p. & a.

Defn: Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to
be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; --
as, an accursed deed. Shak.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ness, n.

ACCUSABLE
Ac*cus"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. accusabilis: cf. F. accusable.]

Defn: Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or
fault; blamable; -- with of.

ACCUSAL
Ac*cus"al, n.

Defn: Accusation. [R.] Byron.

ACCUSANT
Ac*cus"ant, n. Etym: [L. accusans, p. pr. of accusare: cf. F.
accusant.]

Defn: An accuser. Bp. Hall.

ACCUSATION
Ac`cu*sa"tion, n. Etym: [OF. acusation, F. accusation, L. accusatio,
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter
offense.
We come not by the way of accusation To taint that honor every good
tongue blesses. Shak.

2. That of which one is accused; the charge of an offense or crime,
or the declaration containing the charge.
[They] set up over his head his accusation. Matt. xxvii. 37.

Syn.
 -- Impeachment; crimination; censure; charge.

ACCUSATIVAL
Ac*cu`sa*ti"val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the accusative case.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, a. Etym: [F. accusatif, L. accusativus (in sense 2),
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. Producing accusations; accusatory. "This hath been a very
accusative age." Sir E. Dering.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek
nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or
influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of
motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to
the objective case in English.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The accusative case.

ACCUSATIVELY
Ac*cu"sa*tive*ly, adv.

1. In an accusative manner.

2. In relation to the accusative case in grammar.

ACCUSATORIAL
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Accusatory.

ACCUSATORIALLY
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way accusation.

ACCUSATORY
Ac*cu"sa*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. accusatorius, fr. accusare.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory
libel. Grote.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", n.

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accused; p. pr. & vb. n. Accusing.]
Etym: [OF. acuser, F. accuser, L. accusare, to call to account,
accuse; ad + causa cause, lawsuit. Cf. Cause.]

1. To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense;
(Law)

Defn: to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -
- with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.
Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. Acts
xxiv. 13.
We are accused of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down
their arms. Macaulay.

2. To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.
Their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another.
Rom. ii. 15.

3. To betray; to show. Etym: [L.] Sir P. Sidney.

Syn.
 -- To charge; blame; censure; reproach; criminate; indict; impeach;
arraign.
 -- To Accuse, Charge, Impeach, Arraign. These words agree in
bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. To accuse is
a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not
exclusively) to crimes; as, to accuse of treason. Charge is the most
generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault,
etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to charge
with dishonesty or falsehood. To arraign is to bring (a person)
before a tribunal for trial; as, to arraign one before a court or at
the bar public opinion. To impeach is officially to charge with
misbehavior in office; as, to impeach a minister of high crimes. Both
impeach and arraign convey the idea of peculiar dignity or
impressiveness.

ACCUSED
Ac*cused", a.

Defn: Charged with offense; as, an accused person.

Note: Commonly used substantively; as, the accused, one charged with
an offense; the defendant in a criminal case.